1
(1)  The premises of the Organisation shall be  inviolable.
(2)  The authorities of the States in which the  Organisation has its premises shall not enter  those premises, except with the consent of the  President of the European Patent Office. Such  consent shall be assumed in case of fire or  other disaster requiring prompt protective  action.
(3)  Service of process at the premises of the  Organisation and of any other procedural  instruments relating to a cause of action against  the Organisation shall not constitute breach of  inviolability.
2
The archives of the Organisation and any documents belonging to or held by it shall be inviolable.
3
(1)  Within the scope of its official activities the  Organisation shall have immunity from jurisdiction and execution, except
(a)  to the extent that the Organisation shall  have expressly waived such immunity in a particular case;
(b)  in the case of a civil action brought by a  third party for damage resulting from an accident caused by a motor vehicle belonging to, or  operated on behalf of, the Organisation, or in  respect of a motor traffic offence involving such  a vehicle;
(c)  in respect of the enforcement of an arbitration award made under Article 23.
(2)  The property and assets of the Organisation, wherever situated, shall be immune from  any form of requisition, confiscation, expropriation and sequestration.
(3)  The property and assets of the Organisation shall also be immune from any form of  administrative or provisional judicial constraint,  except in so far as may be temporarily necessary in connection with the prevention of, and  investigation into, accidents involving motor  vehicles belonging to or operated on behalf of  the Organisation.
(4)  The official activities of the Organisation  shall, for the purposes of this Protocol, be such  as are strictly necessary for its administrative  and technical operation, as set out in the Convention.
4
(1)  Within the scope of its official activities the  Organisation and its property and income shall  be exempt from all direct taxes.
(2)  Where substantial purchases for the exercise of its official activities, and in the price of  which taxes or duties are included, are made by  the Organisation, appropriate measures shall, whenever possible, be taken by the Contracting  States to remit or reimburse to the Organisation  the amount of such taxes or duties.
(3)  No exemption shall be accorded in respect  of duties and taxes which are no more than  charges for public utility services.
5
Goods imported or exported by the Organisation for the exercise of its official activities shall  be exempt from duties and charges on import  or export other than fees or taxes representing  services rendered, and from all prohibitions and  restrictions on import or export.
6
No exemption shall be granted under Articles 4 and 5 in respect of goods purchased or imported for the personal benefit of the employees of  the European Patent Office.
7
(1)  Goods belonging to the Organisation  which have been acquired or imported under  Article 4 or Article 5 shall not be sold or given  away except in accordance with conditions laid  down by the Contracting States which have  granted the exemptions.
(2)  The transfer of goods and provision of  services between the various buildings of the  Organisation shall be exempt from charges or  restrictions of any kind; where appropriate, the  Contracting States shall take all the necessary  measures to remit or reimburse the amount of  such charges or to lift such restrictions.
8
The transmission of publications and other  information material by or to the Organisation  shall not be restricted in any way.
9
The Contracting States shall accord the  Organisation the currency exemptions which  are necessary for the exercise of its official  activities.
10
(1)  With regard to its official communications  and the transfer of all its documents, the  Organisation shall in each Contracting State  enjoy the most favourable treatment accorded  by that State to any other international organisation.
(2)  No censorship shall be applied to official  communications of the Organisation by whatever means of communication.
11
The Contracting States shall take all appropriate measures to facilitate the entry, stay and  departure of the employees of the European  Patent Office.
12
(1)  Representatives of Contracting States,  alternate Representatives and their advisers or  experts, if any, shall enjoy, while attending  meetings of the Administrative Council and of  any body established by it, and in the course of  their journeys to and from the place of meeting,  the following privileges and immunities:
(a)  immunity from arrest or detention and from  seizure of their personal luggage, except when  found committing, attempting to commit, or just  having committed an offence;
(b)  immunity from jurisdiction, even after the  termination of their mission, in respect of acts,  including words written and spoken, done by  them in the exercise of their functions; this  immunity shall not apply, however, in the case  of a motor traffic offence committed by one of  the persons referred to above, nor in the case  of damage caused by a motor vehicle belonging  to or driven by such a person;
(c)  inviolability for all their official papers and  documents;
(d)  the right to use codes and to receive documents or correspondence by special courier or  sealed bag;
(e)  exemption  for  themselves  and  their  spouses from all measures restricting entry and  from aliens' registration formalities;
(f)  the same facilities in the matter of currency and exchange control as are accorded to the  representatives of foreign Governments on  temporary official missions.
(2)  Privileges and immunities are accorded to  the persons referred to in paragraph 1, not for  their personal advantage but in order to ensure  complete independence in the exercise of their  functions in connection with the Organisation.  Consequently, a Contracting State has the duty to waive the immunity in all cases where, in the  opinion of that State, such immunity would  impede the course of justice and where it can  be waived without prejudicing the purposes for  which it was accorded.
13
(1)  Subject to the provisions of Article 6, the  President of the European Patent Office shall  enjoy the privileges and immunities accorded to  diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention  on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961.
(2)  However, immunity from jurisdiction shall  not apply in the case of a motor traffic offence  committed by the President of the European  Patent Office or damage caused by a motor  vehicle belonging to or driven by him.
14
The employees of the European Patent Office:
(a)  shall, even after their service has terminated, have immunity from jurisdiction in  respect of acts, including words written and  spoken, done in the exercise of their functions;  this immunity shall not apply, however, in the  case of a motor traffic offence committed by an  employee of the European Patent Office, nor in  the case of damage caused by a motor vehicle  belonging to or driven by an employee;
(b)  shall be exempt from all obligations in  respect of military service;
(c)  shall enjoy inviolability for all their official  papers and documents;
(d)  shall enjoy the same facilities as regards  exemption from all measures restricting immigration and governing aliens' registration as are  normally accorded to staff members of international organisations, as shall members of their  families forming part of their household;
(e)  shall enjoy the same privileges in respect  of exchange regulations as are normally  accorded to the staff members of international  organisations;
(f)  shall enjoy the same facilities as to repatriation as diplomatic agents in time of international crises, as shall the members of their families forming part of their household;
(g)  shall have the right to import duty-free  their furniture and personal effects at the time of  first taking up their post in the State concerned  and the right on the termination of their functions in that State to export free of duty their  furniture and personal effects, subject to the  conditions considered necessary by the Government of the State in whose territory the right  is exercised and with the exception of property  acquired in that State which is subject to an  export prohibition therein.
15
Experts performing functions on behalf of, or  carrying out missions for, the Organisation shall  enjoy the following privileges and immunities, to  the extent that they are necessary for the carrying out of their functions, including during journeys made in carrying out their functions and in  the course of such missions:
(a)  immunity from jurisdiction in respect of  acts done by them in the exercise of their functions, including words written or spoken, except  in the case of a motor traffic offence committed  by an expert or in the case of damage caused  by a motor vehicle belonging to or driven by  him; experts shall continue to enjoy this immunity after they have ceased to be employed  by the Organisation;
(b)  inviolability for all their official papers and  documents;
(c)  the exchange facilities necessary for the  transfer of their remuneration.
16
(1)  The persons referred to in Articles 13 and  14 shall be subject to a tax for the benefit of the  Organisation on salaries and emoluments paid  by the Organisation, subject to the conditions  and rules laid down by the Administrative  Council within a period of one year from the  date of the entry into force of the Convention.  From the date on which this tax is applied, such  salaries and emoluments shall be exempt from  national income tax. The Contracting States  may, however, take into account the salaries  and emoluments thus exempt when assessing  the amount of tax to be applied to income from  other sources.
(2)  Paragraph 1 shall not apply to pensions  and annuities paid by the Organisation to the  former employees of the European Patent  Office.
17
The Administrative Council shall decide the  categories of employees to whom the provisions of Article 14, in whole or in part, and Article 16 shall apply and the categories of experts  to whom the provisions of Article 15 shall apply.  The names, titles and addresses of the  employees and experts included in such categories shall be communicated from time to time  to the Contracting States.
18
In the event of the Organisation establishing its  own social security scheme, the Organisation  and the employees of the European Patent  Office shall be exempt from all compulsory contributions to national social security schemes,  subject to the agreements made with the Contracting States in accordance with the provisions of Article 25.
19
(1)  The privileges and immunities provided for  in this Protocol are not designed to give to  employees of the European Patent Office or  experts performing functions for or on behalf of  the Organisation personal advantage. They are  provided solely to ensure, in all circumstances,  the unimpeded functioning of the Organisation  and the complete independence of the persons  to whom they are accorded.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office has the duty to waive immunity where he  considers that such immunity prevents the normal course of justice and that it is possible to  dispense with such immunity without prejudicing the interests of the Organisation. The  Administrative Council may waive immunity of  the President for the same reasons.
20
(1)  The Organisation shall co-operate at all  times with the competent authorities of the Contracting States in order to facilitate the proper  administration of justice, to ensure the observance of police regulations and regulations  concerning public health, labour inspection or  other similar national legislation, and to prevent  any abuse of the privileges, immunities and  facilities provided for in this Protocol.
(2)  The procedure of co-operation mentioned  in paragraph 1 may be laid down in the complementary agreements referred to in Article 25.
21
Each Contracting State retains the right to take  all precautions necessary in the interests of its  security.
22
No Contracting State is obliged to extend the  privileges and immunities referred to in Article 12,  Article 13,  Article 14,  sub-paragraphs (b),  (e)  and  (g),  and  Article 15,  sub-paragraph (c), to:
(a)  its own nationals;
(b)  any person who at the time of taking up  his functions with the Organisation has his permanent residence in that State and is not an  employee of any other inter-governmental  organisation whose staff is incorporated into the  Organisation.
23
(1)  Any Contracting State may submit to an  international arbitration tribunal any dispute  concerning the Organisation or an employee of  the European Patent Office or an expert performing functions for or on its behalf, in so far  as the Organisation or the employees and  experts have claimed a privilege or an immunity  under this Protocol in circumstances where that  immunity has not been waived.
(2)  If a Contracting State intends to submit a  dispute to arbitration, it shall notify the Chairman of the Administrative Council, who shall  forthwith inform each Contracting State of such  notification.
(3)  The procedure laid down in paragraph 1 of  this Article shall not apply to disputes between  the Organisation and the employees or experts  in respect of the Service Regulations or conditions of employment or, with regard to the  employees, the Pension Scheme Regulations.
(4)  No appeal shall lie against the award of  the arbitration tribunal, which shall be final; it  shall be binding on the parties. In case of dispute concerning the import or scope of the  award, it shall be incumbent upon the arbitration tribunal to interpret it on request by either  party.
24
(1)  The arbitration tribunal referred to in Article 23 shall consist of three members, one arbitrator nominated by the State or States party to  the arbitration, one arbitrator nominated by the  Administrative Council and a third arbitrator,  who shall be the chairman, nominated by the  said two arbitrators.
(2)  The arbitrators shall be nominated from a  panel comprising no more than six arbitrators  appointed by each Contracting State and six  arbitrators appointed by the Administrative  Council. This panel shall be established as  soon as possible after the Protocol enters into  force and shall be revised each time this proves  necessary.
(3)  If, within three months from the date of the  notification referred to in Article 23, paragraph 2, either party fails to make the  nomination referred to in paragraph 1 above,  the choice of the arbitrator shall, on request of  the other party, be made by the President of the  International Court of Justice from the persons  included in the said panel. This shall also apply,  when so requested by either party, if within one  month from the date of appointment of the second arbitrator, the first two arbitrators are  unable to agree on the nomination of the third  arbitrator. However, if, in these two cases, the  President of the International Court of Justice is  prevented from making the choice, or if he is a  national of one of the States parties to the dispute, the Vice-President of the International  Court of Justice shall make the aforementioned  appointments, provided that he himself is not a  national of one of the States parties to the  dispute; if such is the case, the member of the  International Court of Justice who is not a  national of one of the States parties to the  dispute and who has been chosen by the  President or Vice-President shall make the  appointments. A national of the State applying  for arbitration may not be chosen to fill the post  of the arbitrator whose appointment devolves  on the Administrative Council nor may a person  included in the panel and appointed by the  Administrative Council be chosen to fill the post  of an arbitrator whose appointment devolves on  the State which is the claimant. Nor may a  person of either of these categories be chosen  as chairman of the Tribunal.
(4)  The arbitration tribunal shall draw up its own rules of procedure.
25
The Organisation may, on a decision of the  Administrative Council, conclude with one or  more  Contracting  States  complementary  agreements to give effect to the provisions of  this Protocol as regards such State or States,  and other arrangements to ensure the efficient  functioning of the Organisation and the safeguarding of its interests.