European Patent Convention

PART I   GENERAL AND INSTITUTIONAL  PROVISIONS

Chapter I   General provisions

Article 1   European law for the grant of patents

A system of law, common to the Contracting  States,2 for the grant of patents for invention is  established by this Convention.

Article 2   European patent

(1)  Patents granted under this Convention  shall be called European patents.

(2)  The European patent shall, in each of the  Contracting States for which it is granted, have  the effect of and be subject to the same condi- tions as a national patent granted by that State,  unless this Convention provides otherwise.

Article 3   Territorial effect

The grant of a European patent may be re- quested for one or more of the Contracting  States.

European Patent Convention

Article 43   European Patent Organisation

(1)  A European Patent Organisation, hereinaf- ter referred to as the Organisation, is estab- lished by this Convention. It shall have adminis- trative and financial autonomy.

(2)  The organs of the Organisation shall be:

(a)  the European Patent Office;

(b)  the Administrative Council.

(3)  The task of the Organisation shall be to  grant European patents. This shall be carried  out by the European Patent Office supervised  by the Administrative Council.

Article 4a4   Conference of ministers of the Contracting  States

A conference of ministers of the Contracting  States responsible for patent matters shall meet  at least every five years to discuss issues per- taining to the Organisation and to the European  patent system.

Chapter II   The European Patent Organisation

Article 55   Legal status

(1)  The Organisation shall have legal person- ality.

European Patent Convention

(2)  In each of the Contracting States, the Or- ganisation shall enjoy the most extensive legal  capacity accorded to legal persons under the  national law of that State; it may in particular  acquire or dispose of movable and immovable  property and may be a party to legal proceed- ings.

(3)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall represent the Organisation.

Article 66   Headquarters

(1)  The Organisation shall have its headquar- ters in Munich.

(2)  The European Patent Office shall be  located in Munich. It shall have a branch at  The Hague.

Article 77   Sub-offices of the European Patent Office

By decision of the Administrative Council,  sub-offices of the European Patent Office may  be created, if need be, for the purpose of infor- mation and liaison, in the Contracting States  and with intergovernmental organisations in the  field of industrial property, subject to the  approval of the Contracting State or organisa- tion concerned.

European Patent Convention

Article 8   Privileges and immunities

The Protocol on Privileges and Immunities an- nexed to this Convention shall define the condi- tions under which the Organisation, the mem- bers of the Administrative Council, the employ- ees of the European Patent Office, and such  other persons specified in that Protocol as take  part in the work of the Organisation, shall enjoy,  in each Contracting State, the privileges and  immunities necessary for the performance of  their duties.

Article 9   Liability

(1)  The contractual liability of the Organisa- tion shall be governed by the law applicable to  the contract in question.

(2)  The non-contractual liability of the Orga- nisation in respect of any damage caused by it  or by the employees of the European Patent  Office in the performance of their duties shall be  governed by the law of the Federal Republic of  Germany. Where the damage is caused by the  branch at The Hague or a sub-office or employ- ees attached thereto, the law of the Contracting  State in which such branch or sub-office is located shall apply.

(3)  The personal liability of the employees of  the European Patent Office towards the Orga- nisation shall be governed by their Service  Regulations or conditions of employment.

(4)  The courts with jurisdiction to settle dis- putes under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be:

(a)  for disputes under paragraph 1, the  courts of the Federal Republic of Germany,  unless the contract concluded between the par- ties designates a court of another State;

European Patent Convention

(b)  for disputes under paragraph 2, the  courts of the Federal Republic of Germany, or  of the State in which the branch or sub-office is  located.

Chapter III   The European Patent Office

Article 108   Management

(1)  The European Patent Office shall be  managed by the President, who shall be re- sponsible for its activities to the Administrative  Council.

(2)  To this end, the President shall have in  particular the following functions and powers:

(a)  he shall take all necessary steps to en- sure the functioning of the European Patent  Office, including the adoption of internal  administrative instructions and information to  the public;

(b)  unless this Convention provides other- wise, he shall prescribe which acts are to be  performed at the European Patent Office in  Munich and its branch at The Hague respec- tively;

(c)  he may submit to the Administrative  Council any proposal for amending this Con- vention, for general regulations, or for decisions  which come within the competence of the  Administrative Council;

(d)  he shall prepare and implement the  budget and any amending or supplementary  budget;

(e)  he shall submit a management report to  the Administrative Council each year;

(f)  he shall exercise supervisory authority  over the staff;

European Patent Convention

(g)  subject to Article 11, he shall appoint the  employees and decide on their promotion;

(h)  he shall exercise disciplinary authority  over the employees other than those referred to  in Article 11, and may propose disciplinary  action to the Administrative Council with regard  to employees referred to in Article 11, para- graphs 2 and 3;

(i)  he may delegate his functions and pow- ers.

(3)9  The President shall be assisted by a  number of Vice-Presidents. If the President is  absent or indisposed, one of the Vice-Presi- dents shall take his place in accordance with  the procedure laid down by the Administrative  Council.

Article 1110   Appointment of senior employees

(1)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall be appointed by the Administrative  Council.

(2)  The Vice-Presidents shall be appointed  by the Administrative Council after the Presi- dent of the European Patent Office has been  consulted.

(3)  The members, including the Chairmen, of  the Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall be appointed by the  Administrative Council on a proposal from the  President of the European Patent Office. They  may be re-appointed by the Administrative  Council after the President of the European  Patent Office has been consulted.

European Patent Convention

(4)  The Administrative Council shall exercise  disciplinary authority over the employees  referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3.

(5)  The Administrative Council, after consult- ing the President of the European Patent Office,  may also appoint as members of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal legally qualified members of  the national courts or quasi-judicial authorities  of the Contracting States, who may continue  their judicial activities at the national level. They  shall be appointed for a term of three years and  may be re-appointed.

Article 12   Duties of office

Employees of the European Patent Office shall  be bound, even after the termination of their  employment, neither to disclose nor to make  use of information which by its nature is a pro- fessional secret.

Article 13   Disputes between the Organisation and the  employees of the European Patent Office

(1)  Employees and former employees of the  European Patent Office or their successors in  title may apply to the Administrative Tribunal of  the International Labour Organization in the  case of disputes with the European Patent Or- ganisation, in accordance with the Statute of  the Tribunal and within the limits and subject to  the conditions laid down in the Service Regula- tions for permanent employees or the Pension  Scheme Regulations or arising from the condi- tions of employment of other employees.

(2)  An appeal shall only be admissible if the  person concerned has exhausted such other  means of appeal as are available to him under  the Service Regulations, the Pension Scheme  Regulations or the conditions of employment.

European Patent Convention

Article 1411, 12   Languages of the European Patent Office,  European patent applications and other  documents

(1)  The official languages of the European  Patent Office shall be English, French and Ger- man.

(2)  A European patent application shall be  filed in one of the official languages or, if filed in  any other language, translated into one of the  official languages in accordance with the Im- plementing Regulations. Throughout the pro- ceedings before the European Patent Office,  such translation may be brought into conformity with the application as filed. If a required trans- lation is not filed in due time, the application  shall be deemed to be withdrawn.

(3)  The official language of the European  Patent Office in which the European patent  application is filed or into which it is translated  shall be used as the language of the proceed- ings in all proceedings before the European  Patent Office, unless the Implementing Regula- tions provide otherwise.

European Patent Convention

(4)  Natural or legal persons having their resi- dence or principal place of business within a  Contracting State having a language other than  English, French or German as an official lan- guage, and nationals of that State who are resi- dent abroad, may file documents which have to  be filed within a time limit in an official language  of that State. They shall, however, file a transla- tion in an official language of the European  Patent Office in accordance with the Imple- menting Regulations. If any document, other  than those documents making up the European  patent application, is not filed in the prescribed  language, or if any required translation is not  filed in due time, the document shall be deemed  not to have been filed.

(5)  European patent applications shall be  published in the language of the proceedings.

(6)  Specifications of European patents shall  be published in the language of the proceed- ings and shall include a translation of the claims  in the other two official languages of the Euro- pean Patent Office.

(7)  The following shall be published in the  three official languages of the European Patent  Office:

(a)  the European Patent Bulletin;

(b)  the Official Journal of the European Pat- ent Office.

(8)  Entries in the European Patent Register  shall be made in the three official languages of  the European Patent Office. In cases of doubt,  the entry in the language of the proceedings  shall be authentic.

European Patent Convention

Article 1513   Departments entrusted with the procedure

To carry out the procedures laid down in this  Convention, the following shall be set up within  the European Patent Office:

(a)  a Receiving Section;

(b)  Search Divisions;

(c)  Examining Divisions;

(d)  Opposition Divisions;

(e)  a Legal Division;

(f)  Boards of Appeal;

(g)  an Enlarged Board of Appeal.

Article 1614   Receiving Section

The Receiving Section shall be responsible for  the examination on filing and the examination  as to formal requirements of European patent  applications.

Article 1715   Search Divisions

The Search Divisions shall be responsible for  drawing up European search reports.

European Patent Convention

Article 1816   Examining Divisions

(1)  The Examining Divisions shall be respon- sible for the examination of European patent  applications.

(2)17 An Examining Division shall consist of three technically qualified examiners. However,  before a decision is taken on a European patent  application, its examination shall, as a general  rule, be entrusted to one member of the Exam- ining Division. Oral proceedings shall be before  the Examining Division itself. If the Examining  Division considers that the nature of the deci- sion so requires, it shall be enlarged by the  addition of a legally qualified examiner. In the  event of parity of votes, the vote of the Chair- man of the Examining Division shall be  decisive.

Article 1918   Opposition Divisions

(1)  The  Opposition  Divisions  shall  be  responsible for the examination of oppositions  against any European patent.

European Patent Convention

(2)  An Opposition Division shall consist of  three technically qualified examiners, at least  two of whom shall not have taken part in the  proceedings for grant of the patent to which the  opposition relates. An examiner who has taken  part in the proceedings for the grant of the  European patent may not be the Chairman.  Before a decision is taken on the opposition,  the Opposition Division may entrust the  examination of the opposition to one of its  members. Oral proceedings shall be before the  Opposition Division itself. If the Opposition  Division considers that the nature of the  decision so requires, it shall be enlarged by the  addition of a legally qualified examiner who  shall not have taken part in the proceedings for  grant of the patent. In the event of parity of  votes, the vote of the Chairman of the  Opposition Division shall be decisive.

Article 2019   Legal Division

(1)  The Legal Division shall be responsible  for decisions in respect of entries in the Regis- ter of European Patents and in respect of regis- tration on, and deletion from, the list of profes- sional representatives.

(2)  Decisions of the Legal Division shall be  taken by one legally qualified member.

European Patent Convention

Article 2120, 21   Boards of Appeal

(1)  The Boards of Appeal shall be responsi- ble for the examination of appeals from deci- sions of the Receiving Section, the Examining  Divisions and Opposition Divisions, and the  Legal Division.

(2)  For appeals from decisions of the Receiv- ing Section or the Legal Division, a Board of  Appeal shall consist of three legally qualified  members.

(3)  For appeals from a decision of an Exam- ining Division, a Board of Appeal shall consist  of:

(a)  two technically qualified members and  one legally qualified member, when the deci- sion concerns the refusal of a European patent  application or the grant, limitation or revocation  of a European patent, and was taken by an  Examining Division consisting of less than four  members;

(b)  three technically and two legally qualified  members, when the decision was taken by an  Examining Division consisting of four members,  or when the Board of Appeal considers that the  nature of the appeal so requires;

(c)  three legally qualified members in all  other cases.

European Patent Convention

(4)  For appeals from a decision of an Oppo- sition Division, a Board of Appeal shall consist  of:

(a)  two technically qualified members and  one legally qualified member, when the deci- sion was taken by an Opposition Division con- sisting of three members;

(b)  three technically and two legally qualified  members, when the decision was taken by an  Opposition Division consisting of four members,  or when the Board of Appeal considers that the  nature of the appeal so requires.

Article 2222   Enlarged Board of Appeal

(1)  The Enlarged Board of Appeal shall be  responsible for:

(a)  deciding on points of law referred to it by  Boards of Appeal under Article 112;

(b)  giving opinions on points of law referred  to it by the President of the European Patent  Office under Article 112;

(c)  deciding on petitions for review of deci- sions of the Boards of Appeal under Arti- cle 112a.

(2)  In proceedings under paragraph 1(a) and  (b), the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall consist  of five legally and two technically qualified  members. In proceedings under paragraph 1(c), the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall consist of  three or five members as laid down in the  Implementing Regulations. In all proceedings, a  legally qualified member shall be the Chairman.

European Patent Convention

Article 2323   Independence of the members of the Boards

(1)  The members of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal and of the Boards of Appeal shall be  appointed for a term of five years and may not  be removed from office during this term, except  if there are serious grounds for such removal  and if the Administrative Council, on a proposal  from the Enlarged Board of Appeal, takes a  decision to this effect. Notwithstanding sen- tence 1, the term of office of members of the  Boards shall end if they resign or are retired in  accordance with the Service Regulations for  permanent employees of the European Patent Office.

(2)  The members of the Boards may not be  members of the Receiving Section, Examining  Divisions, Opposition Divisions or Legal Divi- sion.

(3)24 In their decisions the members of the  Boards shall not be bound by any instructions  and shall comply only with the provisions of this  Convention.

(4)25 The Rules of Procedure of the Boards of  Appeal and the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall  be adopted in accordance with the Implement- ing Regulations. They shall be subject to the  approval of the Administrative Council.

See decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 6/95  (Annex I).

European Patent Convention

Article 2426   Exclusion and objection

(1)  Members of the Boards of Appeal or of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal may not take part  in a case in which they have any personal  interest, or if they have previously been  involved as representatives of one of the  parties, or if they participated in the decision  under appeal.

(2)  If, for one of the reasons mentioned in  paragraph 1, or for any other reason, a member  of a Board of Appeal or of the Enlarged Board  of Appeal considers that he should not take part  in any appeal, he shall inform the Board accord- ingly.

(3)  Members of a Board of Appeal or of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal may be objected to  by any party for one of the reasons mentioned  in paragraph 1, or if suspected of partiality. An  objection shall not be admissible if, while being  aware of a reason for objection, the party has  taken a procedural step. An objection may not  be based upon the nationality of members.

(4)  The Boards of Appeal and the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall decide as to the action to  be taken in the cases specified in paragraphs 2 and 3, without the participation of the member  concerned. For the purposes of taking this deci- sion the member objected to shall be replaced  by his alternate.

European Patent Convention

Article 25   Technical opinion

At the request of the competent national court  hearing an infringement or revocation action,  the European Patent Office shall be obliged, on  payment of an appropriate fee,27 to give a tech- nical opinion concerning the European patent  which is the subject of the action. The Examin- ing Division shall be responsible for issuing  such opinions.

Chapter IV   The Administrative Council

Article 26   Membership

(1)  The Administrative Council shall be com- posed of the Representatives and the alternate  Representatives of the Contracting States.  Each Contracting State shall be entitled to  appoint one Representative and one alternate  Representative to the Administrative Council.

(2)  The members of the Administrative  Council may, in accordance with the Rules of  Procedure of the Administrative Council, be  assisted by advisers or experts.

Article 27   Chairmanship

(1)  The Administrative Council shall elect a  Chairman and a Deputy Chairman from among  the Representatives and alternate Representa- tives of the Contracting States. The Deputy  Chairman shall ex officio replace the Chairman  if he is prevented from carrying out his duties.

(2)  The terms of office of the Chairman and  the Deputy Chairman shall be three years. They  may be re-elected.

European Patent Convention

Article 2828   Board

(1)  When there are at least eight Contracting  States, the Administrative Council may set up a  Board composed of five of its members.

(2)  The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman  of the Administrative Council shall be members  of the Board ex officio; the other three members  shall be elected by the Administrative Council.

(3)  The term of office of the members elected  by the Administrative Council shall be three  years. They may not be re-elected.

(4)  The Board shall perform the duties  assigned to it by the Administrative Council in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure.

Article 29   Meetings

(1)  Meetings of the Administrative Council  shall be convened by its Chairman.

(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall take part in the deliberations of the  Administrative Council.

(3)  The Administrative Council shall hold an  ordinary meeting once each year. In addition, it  shall meet on the initiative of its Chairman or at  the request of one-third of the Contracting  States.

(4)  The deliberations of the Administrative  Council shall be based on an agenda, and shall  be held in accordance with its Rules of Proce- dure.

European Patent Convention

(5)  The provisional agenda shall contain any  question whose inclusion is requested by any  Contracting State in accordance with the Rules  of Procedure.

Article 30   Attendance of observers

(1)  The World Intellectual Property Organiza- tion shall be represented at the meetings of the  Administrative Council, in accordance with an  agreement between the Organisation and the  World Intellectual Property Organization.

(2)  Other intergovernmental organisations  entrusted with carrying out international proce- dures in the field of patents, with which the Org- anisation has concluded an agreement, shall be  represented at the meetings of the Adminis- trative Council, in accordance with such agree- ment.

(3)  Any other intergovernmental and interna- tional non-governmental organisations carrying  out an activity of interest to the Organisation  may be invited by the Administrative Council to  be represented at its meetings during any dis- cussion of matters of mutual interest.

Article 31   Languages of the Administrative Council

(1)  The languages used in the deliberations  of the Administrative Council shall be English,  French and German.

(2)  Documents submitted to the Administra- tive Council, and the minutes of its delibera- tions, shall be drawn up in the three languages  specified in paragraph 1.

European Patent Convention

Article 32   Staff, premises and equipment

The European Patent Office shall place at the  disposal of the Administrative Council, and of  any committee established by it, such staff,  premises and equipment as may be necessary  for the performance of their duties.

Article 3329, 30   Competence of the Administrative Council  in certain cases

(1)  The Administrative Council shall be com- petent to amend:

(a)  the time limits laid down in this Conven- tion;

(b)  Parts II to VIII and Part X of this Conven- tion, to bring them into line with an international  treaty relating to patents or European Commu- nity legislation relating to patents;

(c)  the Implementing Regulations.

(2)  The Administrative Council shall be com- petent, in conformity with this Convention, to  adopt or amend:

(a)  the Financial Regulations;

(b)  the Service Regulations for permanent  employees and the conditions of employment of  other employees of the European Patent Office,  the salary scales of the said permanent and  other employees, and also the nature of any  supplementary benefits and the rules for grant- ing them;

European Patent Convention

(c)  the Pension Scheme Regulations and  any appropriate increases in existing pensions  to correspond to increases in salaries;

(d)  the Rules relating to Fees;

(e)  its Rules of Procedure.

(3)  Notwithstanding Article 18, paragraph 2, the Administrative Council shall be competent  to decide, in the light of experience, that in cer- tain categories of cases Examining Divisions  shall consist of one technically qualified exam- iner only. Such decision may be rescinded.

(4)  The Administrative Council shall be com- petent to authorise the President of the Euro- pean Patent Office to negotiate and, subject to  its approval, to conclude agreements on behalf  of the European Patent Organisation with  States, with intergovernmental organisations  and with documentation centres set up on the  basis of agreements with such organisations.

(5)  The Administrative Council may not take  a decision under paragraph 1(b):

-  concerning an international treaty, before  its entry into force;

-  concerning European Community legisla- tion, before its entry into force or, where that  legislation lays down a period for its implemen- tation, before the expiry of that period.

Article 34   Voting rights

(1)  The right to vote in the Administrative  Council shall be restricted to the Contracting  States.

(2)  Each Contracting State shall have one  vote, except where Article 36 applies.

European Patent Convention

Article 3531   Voting rules

(1)  The Administrative Council shall take its  decisions, other than those referred to in para- graphs 2 and 3, by a simple majority of the  Contracting States represented and voting.

(2)  A majority of three-quarters of the votes  of the Contracting States represented and vot- ing shall be required for the decisions which the  Administrative Council is empowered to take  under Article 7, Article 11, paragraph 1, Arti- cle 33, paragraphs 1(a) and (c), and 2 to 4, Article 39,  paragraph 1,  Article 40,  para- graphs 2 and 4, Article 46, Article 134a, Arti- cle 149a, paragraph 2, Article 152, Article 153,  paragraph 7, Article 166 and Article 172.

(3)  Unanimity of the Contracting States vot- ing shall be required for the decisions which the  Administrative Council is empowered to take  under Article 33, paragraph 1(b). The Adminis- trative Council shall take such decisions only if  all the Contracting States are represented. A  decision taken on the basis of Article 33, para- graph 1(b), shall not take effect if a Contracting  State declares, within twelve months of the date  of the decision, that it does not wish to be  bound by that decision.

(4)  Abstentions shall not be considered as  votes.

European Patent Convention

Article 36   Weighting of votes

(1)  In respect of the adoption or amendment  of the Rules relating to Fees and, if the financial  contribution to be made by the Contracting  States would thereby be increased, the adop- tion of the budget of the Organisation and of  any amending or supplementary budget, any  Contracting State may require, following a first  ballot in which each Contracting State shall  have one vote, and whatever the result of this  ballot, that a second ballot be taken immedi- ately, in which votes shall be given to the States  in accordance with paragraph 2. The decision  shall be determined by the result of this second  ballot.

(2)  The number of votes that each Contract- ing State shall have in the second ballot shall  be calculated as follows:

(a)  the percentage obtained for each Con- tracting State in respect of the scale for the  special financial contributions, pursuant to Arti- cle 40, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall be multiplied  by the number of Contracting States and divid- ed by five;

(b)  the number of votes thus given shall be  rounded upwards to the next whole number;

(c)  five additional votes shall be added to this  number;

(d)  nevertheless, no Contracting State shall have more than 30 votes.

European Patent Convention

Chapter V   Financial provisions

Article 3732   Budgetary funding

The budget of the Organisation shall be  financed:

(a)  by the Organisation's own resources;

(b)  by payments made by the Contracting  States in respect of renewal fees for European  patents levied in these States;

(c)  where necessary, by special financial  contributions made by the Contracting States;

(d)  where appropriate, by the revenue pro- vided for in Article 146;

(e)  where appropriate, and for tangible  assets only, by third-party borrowings secured  on land or buildings;

(f)  where appropriate, by third-party funding  for specific projects.

Article 3833   The Organisation's own resources

The Organisation's own resources shall com- prise:

(a)  all income from fees and other sources  and also the reserves of the Organisation;

European Patent Convention

(b)  the resources of the Pension Reserve  Fund, which shall be treated as a special class  of asset of the Organisation, designed to sup- port the Organisation's pension scheme by pro- viding the appropriate reserves.

Article 39   Payments by the Contracting States in  respect of renewal fees for European  patents

(1)34 Each Contracting State shall pay to the  Organisation in respect of each renewal fee  received for a European patent in that State an  amount equal to a proportion of that fee, to be  fixed by the Administrative Council; the propor- tion shall not exceed 75% and shall be the  same for all Contracting States. However, if the  said proportion corresponds to an amount  which is less than a uniform minimum amount fixed by the Administrative Council, the Con- tracting State shall pay that minimum to the  Organisation.

(2)  Each Contracting State shall communi- cate to the Organisation such information as the  Administrative Council considers to be neces- sary to determine the amount of these pay- ments.

(3)  The due dates for these payments shall  be determined by the Administrative Council.

(4)  If a payment is not remitted fully by the  due date, the Contracting State shall pay inter- est from the due date on the amount remaining  unpaid.

European Patent Convention

Article 40   Level of fees and payments – Special  financial contributions

(1)  The amounts of the fees referred to in  Article 38 and the proportion referred to in  Article 39 shall be fixed at such a level as to  ensure that the revenue in respect thereof is  sufficient for the budget of the Organisation to  be balanced.

(2)  However, if the Organisation is unable to  balance its budget under the conditions laid  down in paragraph 1, the Contracting States  shall remit to the Organisation special financial  contributions, the amount of which shall be  determined by the Administrative Council for  the accounting period in question.

(3)  These special financial contributions shall  be determined in respect of any Contracting  State on the basis of the number of patent  applications filed in the last year but one prior to  that of entry into force of this Convention, and  calculated in the following manner:

(a)  one half in proportion to the number of  patent applications filed in that Contracting  State;

(b)  one half in proportion to the second high- est number of patent applications filed in the  other Contracting States by natural or legal per- sons having their residence or principal place of  business in that Contracting State.

However, the amounts to be contributed by  States in which the number of patent applica- tions filed exceeds 25 000 shall then be taken  as a whole and a new scale drawn up in propor- tion to the total number of patent applications  filed in these States.

European Patent Convention

(4)  Where the scale position of any Contract- ing State cannot be established in accordance  with paragraph 3, the Administrative Council  shall, with the consent of that State, decide its  scale position.

(5)  Article 39, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the special financial  contributions.

(6)  The special financial contributions shall  be repaid with interest at a rate which shall be  the same for all Contracting States. Repay- ments shall be made in so far as it is possible to  provide for this purpose in the budget; the  amount thus provided shall be distributed  among the Contracting States in accordance  with the scale referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4.

(7)  The special financial contributions remit- ted in any accounting period shall be repaid in  full before any such contributions or parts  thereof remitted in any subsequent accounting  period are repaid.

Article 41   Advances

(1)  At the request of the President of the  European Patent Office, the Contracting States  shall grant advances to the Organisation, on  account of their payments and contributions,  within the limit of the amount fixed by the  Administrative Council. The amount of such  advances shall be determined in proportion to  the amounts due from the Contracting States  for the accounting period in question.

(2)  Article 39, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the advances.