


1 European law for the grant of patents
A system of law, common to the Contracting  States,2 for the grant of patents for invention is  established by this Convention.
2 European patent
(1)  Patents granted under this Convention  shall be called European patents.
(2)  The European patent shall, in each of the  Contracting States for which it is granted, have  the effect of and be subject to the same conditions as a national patent granted by that State,  unless this Convention provides otherwise.
3 Territorial effect
The grant of a European patent may be requested for one or more of the Contracting  States.


4 European Patent Organisation
(1)  A European Patent Organisation, hereinafter referred to as the Organisation, is established by this Convention. It shall have administrative and financial autonomy.
(2)  The organs of the Organisation shall be:
(a)  the European Patent Office;
(b)  the Administrative Council.
(3)  The task of the Organisation shall be to  grant European patents. This shall be carried  out by the European Patent Office supervised  by the Administrative Council.
4a
A conference of ministers of the Contracting  States responsible for patent matters shall meet  at least every five years to discuss issues pertaining to the Organisation and to the European  patent system.

5 Legal status
(1)  The Organisation shall have legal personality.


(2)  In each of the Contracting States, the Organisation shall enjoy the most extensive legal  capacity accorded to legal persons under the  national law of that State; it may in particular  acquire or dispose of movable and immovable  property and may be a party to legal proceedings.
(3)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall represent the Organisation.
6 Headquarters
(1)  The Organisation shall have its headquarters in Munich.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall be  located in Munich. It shall have a branch at  The Hague.
7 Sub-offices of the European Patent Office
By decision of the Administrative Council,  sub-offices of the European Patent Office may  be created, if need be, for the purpose of information and liaison, in the Contracting States  and with intergovernmental organisations in the  field of industrial property, subject to the  approval of the Contracting State or organisation concerned.


8 Privileges and immunities
The Protocol on Privileges and Immunities annexed to this Convention shall define the conditions under which the Organisation, the members of the Administrative Council, the employees of the European Patent Office, and such  other persons specified in that Protocol as take  part in the work of the Organisation, shall enjoy,  in each Contracting State, the privileges and  immunities necessary for the performance of  their duties.
9 Liability
(1)  The contractual liability of the Organisation shall be governed by the law applicable to  the contract in question.
(2)  The non-contractual liability of the Organisation in respect of any damage caused by it  or by the employees of the European Patent  Office in the performance of their duties shall be  governed by the law of the Federal Republic of  Germany. Where the damage is caused by the  branch at The Hague or a sub-office or employees attached thereto, the law of the Contracting  State in which such branch or sub-office is located shall apply.
(3)  The personal liability of the employees of  the European Patent Office towards the Organisation shall be governed by their Service  Regulations or conditions of employment.
(4)  The courts with jurisdiction to settle disputes under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be:
(a)  for disputes under paragraph 1, the  courts of the Federal Republic of Germany,  unless the contract concluded between the parties designates a court of another State;


(b)  for disputes under paragraph 2, the  courts of the Federal Republic of Germany, or  of the State in which the branch or sub-office is  located.

10 Management
(1)  The European Patent Office shall be  managed by the President, who shall be responsible for its activities to the Administrative  Council.
(2)  To this end, the President shall have in  particular the following functions and powers:
(a)  he shall take all necessary steps to ensure the functioning of the European Patent  Office, including the adoption of internal  administrative instructions and information to  the public;
(b)  unless this Convention provides otherwise, he shall prescribe which acts are to be  performed at the European Patent Office in  Munich and its branch at The Hague respectively;
(c)  he may submit to the Administrative  Council any proposal for amending this Convention, for general regulations, or for decisions  which come within the competence of the  Administrative Council;
(d)  he shall prepare and implement the  budget and any amending or supplementary  budget;
(e)  he shall submit a management report to  the Administrative Council each year;
(f)  he shall exercise supervisory authority  over the staff;


(g)  subject to Article 11, he shall appoint the  employees and decide on their promotion;
(h)  he shall exercise disciplinary authority  over the employees other than those referred to  in Article 11, and may propose disciplinary  action to the Administrative Council with regard  to employees referred to in Article 11, paragraphs 2 and 3;
(i)  he may delegate his functions and powers.
(3)9  The President shall be assisted by a  number of Vice-Presidents. If the President is  absent or indisposed, one of the Vice-Presidents shall take his place in accordance with  the procedure laid down by the Administrative  Council.
11 Appointment of senior employees
(1)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall be appointed by the Administrative  Council.
(2)  The Vice-Presidents shall be appointed  by the Administrative Council after the President of the European Patent Office has been  consulted.
(3)  The members, including the Chairmen, of  the Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall be appointed by the  Administrative Council on a proposal from the  President of the European Patent Office. They  may be re-appointed by the Administrative  Council after the President of the European  Patent Office has been consulted.


(4)  The Administrative Council shall exercise  disciplinary authority over the employees  referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3.
(5)  The Administrative Council, after consulting the President of the European Patent Office,  may also appoint as members of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal legally qualified members of  the national courts or quasi-judicial authorities  of the Contracting States, who may continue  their judicial activities at the national level. They  shall be appointed for a term of three years and  may be re-appointed.
12 Duties of office
Employees of the European Patent Office shall  be bound, even after the termination of their  employment, neither to disclose nor to make  use of information which by its nature is a professional secret.
13 Disputes between the Organisation and the  employees of the European Patent Office
(1)  Employees and former employees of the  European Patent Office or their successors in  title may apply to the Administrative Tribunal of  the International Labour Organization in the  case of disputes with the European Patent Organisation, in accordance with the Statute of  the Tribunal and within the limits and subject to  the conditions laid down in the Service Regulations for permanent employees or the Pension  Scheme Regulations or arising from the conditions of employment of other employees.
(2)  An appeal shall only be admissible if the  person concerned has exhausted such other  means of appeal as are available to him under  the Service Regulations, the Pension Scheme  Regulations or the conditions of employment.


14 Languages of the European Patent Office,  European patent applications and other  documents
(1)  The official languages of the European  Patent Office shall be English, French and German.
(2)  A European patent application shall be  filed in one of the official languages or, if filed in  any other language, translated into one of the  official languages in accordance with the Implementing Regulations. Throughout the proceedings before the European Patent Office,  such translation may be brought into conformity with the application as filed. If a required translation is not filed in due time, the application  shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
(3)  The official language of the European  Patent Office in which the European patent  application is filed or into which it is translated  shall be used as the language of the proceedings in all proceedings before the European  Patent Office, unless the Implementing Regulations provide otherwise.


(4)  Natural or legal persons having their residence or principal place of business within a  Contracting State having a language other than  English, French or German as an official language, and nationals of that State who are resident abroad, may file documents which have to  be filed within a time limit in an official language  of that State. They shall, however, file a translation in an official language of the European  Patent Office in accordance with the Implementing Regulations. If any document, other  than those documents making up the European  patent application, is not filed in the prescribed  language, or if any required translation is not  filed in due time, the document shall be deemed  not to have been filed.
(5)  European patent applications shall be  published in the language of the proceedings.
(6)  Specifications of European patents shall  be published in the language of the proceedings and shall include a translation of the claims  in the other two official languages of the European Patent Office.
(7)  The following shall be published in the  three official languages of the European Patent  Office:
(a)  the European Patent Bulletin;
(b)  the Official Journal of the European Patent Office.
(8)  Entries in the European Patent Register  shall be made in the three official languages of  the European Patent Office. In cases of doubt,  the entry in the language of the proceedings  shall be authentic.


15 Departments entrusted with the procedure
To carry out the procedures laid down in this  Convention, the following shall be set up within  the European Patent Office:
(a)  a Receiving Section;
(b)  Search Divisions;
(c)  Examining Divisions;
(d)  Opposition Divisions;
(e)  a Legal Division;
(f)  Boards of Appeal;
(g)  an Enlarged Board of Appeal.
16 Receiving Section
The Receiving Section shall be responsible for  the examination on filing and the examination  as to formal requirements of European patent  applications.
17 Search Divisions
The Search Divisions shall be responsible for  drawing up European search reports.


18 Examining Divisions
(1)  The Examining Divisions shall be responsible for the examination of European patent  applications.
(2)17 An Examining Division shall consist of three technically qualified examiners. However,  before a decision is taken on a European patent  application, its examination shall, as a general  rule, be entrusted to one member of the Examining Division. Oral proceedings shall be before  the Examining Division itself. If the Examining  Division considers that the nature of the decision so requires, it shall be enlarged by the  addition of a legally qualified examiner. In the  event of parity of votes, the vote of the Chairman of the Examining Division shall be  decisive.
19 Opposition Divisions
(1)  The  Opposition  Divisions  shall  be  responsible for the examination of oppositions  against any European patent.


(2)  An Opposition Division shall consist of  three technically qualified examiners, at least  two of whom shall not have taken part in the  proceedings for grant of the patent to which the  opposition relates. An examiner who has taken  part in the proceedings for the grant of the  European patent may not be the Chairman.  Before a decision is taken on the opposition,  the Opposition Division may entrust the  examination of the opposition to one of its  members. Oral proceedings shall be before the  Opposition Division itself. If the Opposition  Division considers that the nature of the  decision so requires, it shall be enlarged by the  addition of a legally qualified examiner who  shall not have taken part in the proceedings for  grant of the patent. In the event of parity of  votes, the vote of the Chairman of the  Opposition Division shall be decisive.
20 Legal Division
(1)  The Legal Division shall be responsible  for decisions in respect of entries in the Register of European Patents and in respect of registration on, and deletion from, the list of professional representatives.
(2)  Decisions of the Legal Division shall be  taken by one legally qualified member.


21 Boards of Appeal
(1)  The Boards of Appeal shall be responsible for the examination of appeals from decisions of the Receiving Section, the Examining  Divisions and Opposition Divisions, and the  Legal Division.
(2)  For appeals from decisions of the Receiving Section or the Legal Division, a Board of  Appeal shall consist of three legally qualified  members.
(3)  For appeals from a decision of an Examining Division, a Board of Appeal shall consist  of:
(a)  two technically qualified members and  one legally qualified member, when the decision concerns the refusal of a European patent  application or the grant, limitation or revocation  of a European patent, and was taken by an  Examining Division consisting of less than four  members;
(b)  three technically and two legally qualified  members, when the decision was taken by an  Examining Division consisting of four members,  or when the Board of Appeal considers that the  nature of the appeal so requires;
(c)  three legally qualified members in all  other cases.


(4)  For appeals from a decision of an Opposition Division, a Board of Appeal shall consist  of:
(a)  two technically qualified members and  one legally qualified member, when the decision was taken by an Opposition Division consisting of three members;
(b)  three technically and two legally qualified  members, when the decision was taken by an  Opposition Division consisting of four members,  or when the Board of Appeal considers that the  nature of the appeal so requires.
22 Enlarged Board of Appeal
(1)  The Enlarged Board of Appeal shall be  responsible for:
(a)  deciding on points of law referred to it by  Boards of Appeal under Article 112;
(b)  giving opinions on points of law referred  to it by the President of the European Patent  Office under Article 112;
(c)  deciding on petitions for review of decisions of the Boards of Appeal under Article 112a.
(2)  In proceedings under paragraph 1(a) and  (b), the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall consist  of five legally and two technically qualified  members. In proceedings under paragraph 1(c), the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall consist of  three or five members as laid down in the  Implementing Regulations. In all proceedings, a  legally qualified member shall be the Chairman.


23 Independence of the members of the Boards
(1)  The members of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal and of the Boards of Appeal shall be  appointed for a term of five years and may not  be removed from office during this term, except  if there are serious grounds for such removal  and if the Administrative Council, on a proposal  from the Enlarged Board of Appeal, takes a  decision to this effect. Notwithstanding sentence 1, the term of office of members of the  Boards shall end if they resign or are retired in  accordance with the Service Regulations for  permanent employees of the European Patent Office.
(2)  The members of the Boards may not be  members of the Receiving Section, Examining  Divisions, Opposition Divisions or Legal Division.
(3)24 In their decisions the members of the  Boards shall not be bound by any instructions  and shall comply only with the provisions of this  Convention.
(4)25 The Rules of Procedure of the Boards of  Appeal and the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall  be adopted in accordance with the Implementing Regulations. They shall be subject to the  approval of the Administrative Council.
See decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 6/95  (Annex I).


24 Exclusion and objection
(1)  Members of the Boards of Appeal or of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal may not take part  in a case in which they have any personal  interest, or if they have previously been  involved as representatives of one of the  parties, or if they participated in the decision  under appeal.
(2)  If, for one of the reasons mentioned in  paragraph 1, or for any other reason, a member  of a Board of Appeal or of the Enlarged Board  of Appeal considers that he should not take part  in any appeal, he shall inform the Board accordingly.
(3)  Members of a Board of Appeal or of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal may be objected to  by any party for one of the reasons mentioned  in paragraph 1, or if suspected of partiality. An  objection shall not be admissible if, while being  aware of a reason for objection, the party has  taken a procedural step. An objection may not  be based upon the nationality of members.
(4)  The Boards of Appeal and the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall decide as to the action to  be taken in the cases specified in paragraphs 2 and 3, without the participation of the member  concerned. For the purposes of taking this decision the member objected to shall be replaced  by his alternate.


25 Technical opinion
At the request of the competent national court  hearing an infringement or revocation action,  the European Patent Office shall be obliged, on  payment of an appropriate fee,27 to give a technical opinion concerning the European patent  which is the subject of the action. The Examining Division shall be responsible for issuing  such opinions.

26 Membership
(1)  The Administrative Council shall be composed of the Representatives and the alternate  Representatives of the Contracting States.  Each Contracting State shall be entitled to  appoint one Representative and one alternate  Representative to the Administrative Council.
(2)  The members of the Administrative  Council may, in accordance with the Rules of  Procedure of the Administrative Council, be  assisted by advisers or experts.
27 Chairmanship
(1)  The Administrative Council shall elect a  Chairman and a Deputy Chairman from among  the Representatives and alternate Representatives of the Contracting States. The Deputy  Chairman shall ex officio replace the Chairman  if he is prevented from carrying out his duties.
(2)  The terms of office of the Chairman and  the Deputy Chairman shall be three years. They  may be re-elected.


28 Board
(1)  When there are at least eight Contracting  States, the Administrative Council may set up a  Board composed of five of its members.
(2)  The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman  of the Administrative Council shall be members  of the Board ex officio; the other three members  shall be elected by the Administrative Council.
(3)  The term of office of the members elected  by the Administrative Council shall be three  years. They may not be re-elected.
(4)  The Board shall perform the duties  assigned to it by the Administrative Council in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
29 Meetings
(1)  Meetings of the Administrative Council  shall be convened by its Chairman.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall take part in the deliberations of the  Administrative Council.
(3)  The Administrative Council shall hold an  ordinary meeting once each year. In addition, it  shall meet on the initiative of its Chairman or at  the request of one-third of the Contracting  States.
(4)  The deliberations of the Administrative  Council shall be based on an agenda, and shall  be held in accordance with its Rules of Procedure.


(5)  The provisional agenda shall contain any  question whose inclusion is requested by any  Contracting State in accordance with the Rules  of Procedure.
30 Attendance of observers
(1)  The World Intellectual Property Organization shall be represented at the meetings of the  Administrative Council, in accordance with an  agreement between the Organisation and the  World Intellectual Property Organization.
(2)  Other intergovernmental organisations  entrusted with carrying out international procedures in the field of patents, with which the Organisation has concluded an agreement, shall be  represented at the meetings of the Administrative Council, in accordance with such agreement.
(3)  Any other intergovernmental and international non-governmental organisations carrying  out an activity of interest to the Organisation  may be invited by the Administrative Council to  be represented at its meetings during any discussion of matters of mutual interest.
31 Languages of the Administrative Council
(1)  The languages used in the deliberations  of the Administrative Council shall be English,  French and German.
(2)  Documents submitted to the Administrative Council, and the minutes of its deliberations, shall be drawn up in the three languages  specified in paragraph 1.


32 Staff, premises and equipment
The European Patent Office shall place at the  disposal of the Administrative Council, and of  any committee established by it, such staff,  premises and equipment as may be necessary  for the performance of their duties.
33 Competence of the Administrative Council  in certain cases
(1)  The Administrative Council shall be competent to amend:
(a)  the time limits laid down in this Convention;
(b)  Parts II to VIII and Part X of this Convention, to bring them into line with an international  treaty relating to patents or European Community legislation relating to patents;
(c)  the Implementing Regulations.
(2)  The Administrative Council shall be competent, in conformity with this Convention, to  adopt or amend:
(a)  the Financial Regulations;
(b)  the Service Regulations for permanent  employees and the conditions of employment of  other employees of the European Patent Office,  the salary scales of the said permanent and  other employees, and also the nature of any  supplementary benefits and the rules for granting them;


(c)  the Pension Scheme Regulations and  any appropriate increases in existing pensions  to correspond to increases in salaries;
(d)  the Rules relating to Fees;
(e)  its Rules of Procedure.
(3)  Notwithstanding Article 18, paragraph 2, the Administrative Council shall be competent  to decide, in the light of experience, that in certain categories of cases Examining Divisions  shall consist of one technically qualified examiner only. Such decision may be rescinded.
(4)  The Administrative Council shall be competent to authorise the President of the European Patent Office to negotiate and, subject to  its approval, to conclude agreements on behalf  of the European Patent Organisation with  States, with intergovernmental organisations  and with documentation centres set up on the  basis of agreements with such organisations.
(5)  The Administrative Council may not take  a decision under paragraph 1(b):
-  concerning an international treaty, before  its entry into force;
-  concerning European Community legislation, before its entry into force or, where that  legislation lays down a period for its implementation, before the expiry of that period.
34 Voting rights
(1)  The right to vote in the Administrative  Council shall be restricted to the Contracting  States.
(2)  Each Contracting State shall have one  vote, except where Article 36 applies.


35 Voting rules
(1)  The Administrative Council shall take its  decisions, other than those referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, by a simple majority of the  Contracting States represented and voting.
(2)  A majority of three-quarters of the votes  of the Contracting States represented and voting shall be required for the decisions which the  Administrative Council is empowered to take  under Article 7, Article 11, paragraph 1, Article 33, paragraphs 1(a) and (c), and 2 to 4, Article 39,  paragraph 1,  Article 40,  paragraphs 2 and 4, Article 46, Article 134a, Article 149a, paragraph 2, Article 152, Article 153,  paragraph 7, Article 166 and Article 172.
(3)  Unanimity of the Contracting States voting shall be required for the decisions which the  Administrative Council is empowered to take  under Article 33, paragraph 1(b). The Administrative Council shall take such decisions only if  all the Contracting States are represented. A  decision taken on the basis of Article 33, paragraph 1(b), shall not take effect if a Contracting  State declares, within twelve months of the date  of the decision, that it does not wish to be  bound by that decision.
(4)  Abstentions shall not be considered as  votes.


36 Weighting of votes
(1)  In respect of the adoption or amendment  of the Rules relating to Fees and, if the financial  contribution to be made by the Contracting  States would thereby be increased, the adoption of the budget of the Organisation and of  any amending or supplementary budget, any  Contracting State may require, following a first  ballot in which each Contracting State shall  have one vote, and whatever the result of this  ballot, that a second ballot be taken immediately, in which votes shall be given to the States  in accordance with paragraph 2. The decision  shall be determined by the result of this second  ballot.
(2)  The number of votes that each Contracting State shall have in the second ballot shall  be calculated as follows:
(a)  the percentage obtained for each Contracting State in respect of the scale for the  special financial contributions, pursuant to Article 40, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall be multiplied  by the number of Contracting States and divided by five;
(b)  the number of votes thus given shall be  rounded upwards to the next whole number;
(c)  five additional votes shall be added to this  number;
(d)  nevertheless, no Contracting State shall have more than 30 votes.



37 Budgetary funding
The budget of the Organisation shall be  financed:
(a)  by the Organisation's own resources;
(b)  by payments made by the Contracting  States in respect of renewal fees for European  patents levied in these States;
(c)  where necessary, by special financial  contributions made by the Contracting States;
(d)  where appropriate, by the revenue provided for in Article 146;
(e)  where appropriate, and for tangible  assets only, by third-party borrowings secured  on land or buildings;
(f)  where appropriate, by third-party funding  for specific projects.
38 The Organisation's own resources
The Organisation's own resources shall comprise:
(a)  all income from fees and other sources  and also the reserves of the Organisation;


(b)  the resources of the Pension Reserve  Fund, which shall be treated as a special class  of asset of the Organisation, designed to support the Organisation's pension scheme by providing the appropriate reserves.
39 Payments by the Contracting States in  respect of renewal fees for European  patents
(1)34 Each Contracting State shall pay to the  Organisation in respect of each renewal fee  received for a European patent in that State an  amount equal to a proportion of that fee, to be  fixed by the Administrative Council; the proportion shall not exceed 75% and shall be the  same for all Contracting States. However, if the  said proportion corresponds to an amount  which is less than a uniform minimum amount fixed by the Administrative Council, the Contracting State shall pay that minimum to the  Organisation.
(2)  Each Contracting State shall communicate to the Organisation such information as the  Administrative Council considers to be necessary to determine the amount of these payments.
(3)  The due dates for these payments shall  be determined by the Administrative Council.
(4)  If a payment is not remitted fully by the  due date, the Contracting State shall pay interest from the due date on the amount remaining  unpaid.


40 Level of fees and payments – Special  financial contributions
(1)  The amounts of the fees referred to in  Article 38 and the proportion referred to in  Article 39 shall be fixed at such a level as to  ensure that the revenue in respect thereof is  sufficient for the budget of the Organisation to  be balanced.
(2)  However, if the Organisation is unable to  balance its budget under the conditions laid  down in paragraph 1, the Contracting States  shall remit to the Organisation special financial  contributions, the amount of which shall be  determined by the Administrative Council for  the accounting period in question.
(3)  These special financial contributions shall  be determined in respect of any Contracting  State on the basis of the number of patent  applications filed in the last year but one prior to  that of entry into force of this Convention, and  calculated in the following manner:
(a)  one half in proportion to the number of  patent applications filed in that Contracting  State;
(b)  one half in proportion to the second highest number of patent applications filed in the  other Contracting States by natural or legal persons having their residence or principal place of  business in that Contracting State.
However, the amounts to be contributed by  States in which the number of patent applications filed exceeds 25 000 shall then be taken  as a whole and a new scale drawn up in proportion to the total number of patent applications  filed in these States.


(4)  Where the scale position of any Contracting State cannot be established in accordance  with paragraph 3, the Administrative Council  shall, with the consent of that State, decide its  scale position.
(5)  Article 39, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the special financial  contributions.
(6)  The special financial contributions shall  be repaid with interest at a rate which shall be  the same for all Contracting States. Repayments shall be made in so far as it is possible to  provide for this purpose in the budget; the  amount thus provided shall be distributed  among the Contracting States in accordance  with the scale referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4.
(7)  The special financial contributions remitted in any accounting period shall be repaid in  full before any such contributions or parts  thereof remitted in any subsequent accounting  period are repaid.
41 Advances
(1)  At the request of the President of the  European Patent Office, the Contracting States  shall grant advances to the Organisation, on  account of their payments and contributions,  within the limit of the amount fixed by the  Administrative Council. The amount of such  advances shall be determined in proportion to  the amounts due from the Contracting States  for the accounting period in question.
(2)  Article 39, paragraphs 3 and 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the advances.


42 Budget
(1)  The budget of the Organisation shall be  balanced. It shall be drawn up in accordance  with the generally accepted accounting principles laid down in the Financial Regulations. If  necessary, there may be amending or supplementary budgets.
(2)  The budget shall be drawn up in the unit  of account fixed in the Financial Regulations.
43 Authorisation for expenditure
(1)  The expenditure entered in the budget  shall be authorised for the duration of one  accounting period, unless the Financial Regulations provide otherwise.
(2)  In accordance with the Financial Regulations, any appropriations, other than those relating to staff costs, which are unexpended at the  end of the accounting period may be carried  forward, but not beyond the end of the following  accounting period.
(3)  Appropriations shall be set out under different headings according to type and purpose  of the expenditure and subdivided, as far as  necessary, in accordance with the Financial  Regulations.
44 Appropriations for unforeseeable  expenditure
(1)  The budget of the Organisation may contain appropriations for unforeseeable expenditure.
(2)  The employment of these appropriations  by the Organisation shall be subject to the prior  approval of the Administrative Council.


45 Accounting period
The  accounting  period  shall  commence on 1 January and end on 31 December.
46 Preparation and adoption of the budget
(1)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall submit the draft budget to the  Administrative Council no later than the date  prescribed in the Financial Regulations.
(2)  The budget and any amending or supplementary budget shall be adopted by the  Administrative Council.
47 Provisional budget
(1)  If, at the beginning of the accounting  period, the budget has not been adopted by the  Administrative Council, expenditures may be  effected on a monthly basis per heading or  other division of the budget, in accordance with  the Financial Regulations, up to one-twelfth of the budget appropriations for the preceding  accounting period, provided that the appropriations thus made available to the President of  the European Patent Office shall not exceed  one-twelfth of those provided for in the draft  budget.
(2)  The Administrative Council may, subject  to the observance of the other provisions laid  down in paragraph 1, authorise expenditure in  excess of one-twelfth of the appropriations.
(3)  The payments referred to in Article 37(b) shall continue to be made, on a provisional  basis, under the conditions determined under  Article 39 for the year preceding that to which  the draft budget relates.


(4)  The Contracting States shall pay each  month, on a provisional basis and in accordance with the scale referred to in Article 40,  paragraphs 3 and 4, any special financial contributions necessary to ensure implementation  of paragraphs 1 and 2. Article 39, paragraph 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis to these contributions.
48 Budget implementation
(1)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall implement the budget and any  amending or supplementary budget on his own  responsibility and within the limits of the  allocated appropriations.
(2)  Within the budget, the President of the  European Patent Office may, in accordance  with the Financial Regulations, transfer funds  between the various headings or sub-headings.
49 Auditing of accounts
(1)  The income and expenditure account and  a balance sheet of the Organisation shall be  examined by auditors whose independence is  beyond doubt, appointed by the Administrative  Council for a period of five years, which shall be  renewable or extensible.
(2)  The audit shall be based on vouchers and  shall take place, if necessary, in situ. The audit  shall ascertain whether all income has been  received and all expenditure effected in a lawful  and proper manner and whether the financial  management is sound. The auditors shall draw  up a report containing a signed audit opinion  after the end of each accounting period.


(3)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall annually submit to the Administrative Council the accounts of the preceding  accounting period in respect of the budget and  the balance sheet showing the assets and  liabilities of the Organisation together with the  report of the auditors.
(4)  The Administrative Council shall approve  the annual accounts together with the report of  the auditors and shall discharge the President  of the European Patent Office in respect of the  implementation of the budget.
50 Financial Regulations
The Financial Regulations shall lay down in particular:
(a)  the arrangements relating to the establishment and implementation of the budget and  for the rendering and auditing of accounts;
(b)  the method and procedure whereby the  payments and contributions provided for in Article 37 and the advances provided for in Article 41 are to be made available to the Organisation by the Contracting States;
(c)  the rules concerning the responsibilities  of authorising and accounting officers and the  arrangements for their supervision;
(d)  the rates of interest provided for in Articles 39, 40 and 47;
(e)  the method of calculating the contributions payable by virtue of Article 146;
(f)  the composition of and duties to be  assigned to a Budget and Finance Committee  which should be set up by the Administrative  Council;


(g)  the generally accepted accounting principles on which the budget and the annual financial statements shall be based.
51 Fees
(1)  The European Patent Office may levy  fees for any official task or procedure carried  out under this Convention.
(2)  Time limits for the payment of fees other  than those fixed by this Convention shall be laid  down in the Implementing Regulations.
(3)  Where the Implementing Regulations provide that a fee shall be paid, they shall also lay  down the legal consequences of failure to pay  such fee in due time.
(4)  The Rules relating to Fees shall determine in particular the amounts of the fees and  the ways in which they are to be paid.




52 Patentable inventions
(1)  European patents shall be granted for  any inventions, in all fields of technology, provided that they are new, involve an inventive  step and are susceptible of industrial application.
(2)  The following in particular shall not be  regarded as inventions within the meaning of  paragraph 1:
(a)  discoveries, scientific theories and mathematical methods;
(b)  aesthetic creations;
(c)  schemes, rules and methods for performing mental acts, playing games or doing business, and programs for computers;
(d)  presentations of information.
(3)  Paragraph 2 shall exclude the patentability of the subject-matter or activities referred to  therein only to the extent to which a European  patent application or European patent relates to  such subject-matter or activities as such.


53 Exceptions to patentability
European patents shall not be granted in  respect of:
(a)  inventions the commercial exploitation of  which would be contrary to "ordre public" or  morality; such exploitation shall not be deemed  to be so contrary merely because it is prohibited  by law or regulation in some or all of the  Contracting States;
(b)  plant or animal varieties or essentially  biological processes for the production of plants  or animals; this provision shall not apply to  microbiological processes or the products  thereof;
(c)  methods for treatment of the human or  animal body by surgery or therapy and diagnostic methods practised on the human or animal  body; this provision shall not apply to products,  in particular substances or compositions, for  use in any of these methods.


54 Novelty
(1)  An invention shall be considered to be  new if it does not form part of the state of the  art.
(2)  The state of the art shall be held to comprise everything made available to the public by  means of a written or oral description, by use,  or in any other way, before the date of filing of  the European patent application.
(3)  Additionally, the content of European patent applications as filed, the dates of filing of  which are prior to the date referred to in paragraph 2 and which were published on or after  that date, shall be considered as comprised in  the state of the art.
(4)  Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall not exclude the  patentability of any substance or composition,  comprised in the state of the art, for use in a  method referred to in Article 53(c), provided that  its use for any such method is not comprised in  the state of the art.
(5)44 Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall also not exclude the patentability of any substance or composition referred to in paragraph 4 for any  specific use in a method referred to in Article 53(c), provided that such use is not comprised in the state of the art.


55 Non-prejudicial disclosures
(1)  For the application of Article 54, a disclosure of the invention shall not be taken into  consideration if it occurred no earlier than six  months preceding the filing of the European  patent application and if it was due to, or in  consequence of:
(a)45 an evident abuse in relation to the applicant or his legal predecessor, or
(b)  the fact that the applicant or his legal  predecessor has displayed the invention at an  official, or officially recognised, international  exhibition falling within the terms of the  Convention on international exhibitions signed  at Paris on 22 November 1928 and last revised on 30 November 1972.
(2)  In the case of paragraph 1(b), paragraph 1 shall apply only if the applicant states,  when filing the European patent application,  that the invention has been so displayed and  files a supporting certificate within the time limit  and under the conditions laid down in the  Implementing Regulations.
56 Inventive step
An invention shall be considered as involving  an inventive step if, having regard to the state  of the art, it is not obvious to a person skilled in  the art. If the state of the art also includes  documents within the meaning of Article 54,  paragraph 3, these documents shall not be  considered in deciding whether there has been  an inventive step.


57 Industrial application
An invention shall be considered as susceptible  of industrial application if it can be made or  used in any kind of industry, including agriculture.

58 Entitlement to file a European patent  application
A European patent application may be filed by  any natural or legal person, or any body equivalent to a legal person by virtue of the law governing it.
59 Multiple applicants
A European patent application may also be filed  either by joint applicants or by two or more  applicants designating different Contracting  States.


60 Right to a European patent
(1)  The right to a European patent shall  belong to the inventor or his successor in title. If  the inventor is an employee, the right to a  European patent shall be determined in accordance with the law of the State in which the  employee is mainly employed; if the State in  which the employee is mainly employed cannot  be determined, the law to be applied shall be  that of the State in which the employer has the  place of business to which the employee is  attached.
(2)  If two or more persons have made an invention independently of each other, the right to  a European patent therefor shall belong to the  person whose European patent application has  the earliest date of filing, provided that this first  application has been published.
(3)  In proceedings before the European Patent Office, the applicant shall be deemed to be  entitled to exercise the right to a European patent.
61 European patent applications filed by  non-entitled persons
(1)  If by a final decision it is adjudged that a  person other than the applicant is entitled to the  grant of the European patent, that person may,  in accordance with the Implementing Regulations:
(a)  prosecute the European patent application as his own application in place of the applicant;


(b)  file a new European patent application in  respect of the same invention; or
(c)  request that the European patent application be refused.
(2)  Article 76, paragraph 1, shall apply mutatis mutandis to a new European patent application filed under paragraph 1(b).
62 Right of the inventor to be mentioned
The inventor shall have the right, vis-à-vis the  applicant for or proprietor of a European patent,  to be mentioned as such before the European  Patent Office.

63 Term of the European patent
(1)  The term of the European patent shall be  20 years from the date of filing of the application.
(2)  Nothing in the preceding paragraph shall  limit the right of a Contracting State to extend  the term of a European patent, or to grant corresponding protection which follows immediately on expiry of the term of the patent, under  the same conditions as those applying to  national patents:
(a)  in order to take account of a state of war  or similar emergency conditions affecting that  State;


(b)  if the subject-matter of the European patent is a product or a process for manufacturing  a product or a use of a product which has to  undergo an administrative authorisation procedure required by law before it can be put on the  market in that State.
(3)  Paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis  to European patents granted jointly for a group  of Contracting States in accordance with Article 142.
(4)  A Contracting State which makes provision for extension of the term or corresponding  protection under paragraph 2(b) may, in accordance with an agreement concluded with the  Organisation, entrust to the European Patent  Office tasks associated with implementation of  the relevant provisions.
64 Rights conferred by a European patent
(1)  A European patent shall, subject to the  provisions of paragraph 2, confer on its proprietor from the date on which the mention of its  grant is published in the European Patent Bulletin, in each Contracting State in respect of  which it is granted, the same rights as would be  conferred by a national patent granted in that  State.
(2)  If the subject-matter of the European  patent is a process, the protection conferred by  the patent shall extend to the products directly  obtained by such process.
(3)  Any infringement of a European patent  shall be dealt with by national law.


65 Translation of the European patent
(1)  Any Contracting State may, if the European patent as granted, amended or limited by  the European Patent Office is not drawn up in  one of its official languages, prescribe that the  proprietor of the patent shall supply to its central industrial property office a translation of the  patent as granted, amended or limited in one of  its official languages at his option or, where that  State has prescribed the use of one specific  official language, in that language. The period  for supplying the translation shall end three  months after the date on which the mention of  the grant, maintenance in amended form or  limitation of the European patent is published in  the European Patent Bulletin, unless the State  concerned prescribes a longer period.
(2)  Any Contracting State which has adopted  provisions pursuant to paragraph 1 may prescribe that the proprietor of the patent must pay  all or part of the costs of publication of such  translation within a period laid down by that  State.
(3)  Any Contracting State may prescribe that  in the event of failure to observe the provisions  adopted in accordance with paragraphs 1 and  2, the European patent shall be deemed to be  void ab initio in that State.


66 Equivalence of European filing with national  filing
A European patent application which has been  accorded a date of filing shall, in the designated  Contracting States, be equivalent to a regular  national filing, where appropriate with the priority claimed for the European patent application.
67 Rights conferred by a European patent  application after publication
(1)  A European patent application shall, from  the date of its publication, provisionally confer  upon the applicant the protection provided for  by Article 64, in the Contracting States designated in the application.
(2)  Any Contracting State may prescribe that  a European patent application shall not confer  such protection as is conferred by Article 64. However, the protection attached to the publication of the European patent application may not  be less than that which the laws of the State  concerned attach to the compulsory publication  of unexamined national patent applications. In  any event, each State shall ensure at least that,  from the date of publication of a European patent application, the applicant can claim compensation reasonable in the circumstances from  any person who has used the invention in that  State in circumstances where that person would  be liable under national law for infringement of  a national patent.


(3)  Any Contracting State which does not  have as an official language the language of the  proceedings may prescribe that provisional protection in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall not be effective until such time as a  translation of the claims in one of its official languages at the option of the applicant or, where  that State has prescribed the use of one specific official language, in that language:
(a)  has been made available to the public in  the manner prescribed by national law, or
(b)  has been communicated to the person  using the invention in the said State.
(4)  The European patent application shall be  deemed never to have had the effects set out in  paragraphs 1 and 2 when it has been withdrawn, deemed to be withdrawn or finally  refused. The same shall apply in respect of the  effects of the European patent application in a  Contracting State the designation of which is  withdrawn or deemed to be withdrawn.
68 Effect of revocation or limitation of the  European patent
The European patent application and the resulting European patent shall be deemed not to  have had, from the outset, the effects specified  in Articles 64 and 67, to the extent that the patent has been revoked or limited in opposition,  limitation or revocation proceedings.


69 Extent of protection
(1)  The extent of the protection conferred by  a European patent or a European patent application shall be determined by the claims. Nevertheless, the description and drawings shall be  used to interpret the claims.
(2)  For the period up to grant of the European patent, the extent of the protection conferred by the European patent application shall  be determined by the claims contained in the  application as published. However, the European patent as granted or as amended in  opposition, limitation or revocation proceedings  shall determine retroactively the protection conferred by the application, in so far as such protection is not thereby extended.
70 Authentic text of a European patent  application or European patent
(1)  The text of a European patent application  or a European patent in the language of the  proceedings shall be the authentic text in any  proceedings before the European Patent Office  and in any Contracting State.
The Protocol on the Interpretation of Article 69 EPC  is an integral part of the Convention pursuant to  Article 164, paragraph 1.


(2)  If, however, the European patent application has been filed in a language which is not  an official language of the European Patent  Office, that text shall be the application as filed  within the meaning of this Convention.
(3)  Any Contracting State may provide that a  translation into one of its official languages, as  prescribed by it according to this Convention,  shall in that State be regarded as authentic,  except for revocation proceedings, in the event  of the European patent application or European  patent in the language of the translation conferring protection which is narrower than that conferred by it in the language of the proceedings.
(4)  Any Contracting State which adopts a  provision under paragraph 3:
(a)  shall allow the applicant for or proprietor  of the patent to file a corrected translation of the  European patent application or European patent. Such corrected translation shall not have  any legal effect until any conditions established  by the Contracting State under Article 65, paragraph 2, or Article 67, paragraph 3, have been  complied with;
(b)  may prescribe that any person who, in  that State, in good faith has used or has made  effective and serious preparations for using an  invention the use of which would not constitute  infringement of the application or patent in the  original translation, may, after the corrected  translation takes effect, continue such use in  the course of his business or for the needs  thereof without payment.



71 Transfer and constitution of rights
A European patent application may be transferred or give rise to rights for one or more of  the designated Contracting States.
72 Assignment
An assignment of a European patent application shall be made in writing and shall require  the signature of the parties to the contract.
73 Contractual licensing
A European patent application may be licensed  in whole or in part for the whole or part of the  territories of the designated Contracting States.
74 Law applicable
Unless this Convention provides otherwise, the  European patent application as an object of  property shall, in each designated Contracting  State and with effect for such State, be subject  to the law applicable in that State to national  patent applications.




75 Filing of a European patent application
(1)  A European patent application may be  filed:
(a)66 with the European Patent Office, or
(b)67 if the law of a Contracting State so  permits, and subject to Article 76, paragraph 1, with the central industrial property office or  other competent authority of that State. Any  application filed in this way shall have the same  effect as if it had been filed on the same date  with the European Patent Office.


(2)  Paragraph 1 shall not preclude the application of legislative or regulatory provisions  which, in any Contracting State:
(a)  govern inventions which, owing to the  nature of their subject-matter, may not be communicated abroad without the prior authorisation of the competent authorities of that State,  or
(b)  prescribe that any application is to be  filed initially with a national authority, or make  direct filing with another authority subject to  prior authorisation.
76 European divisional applications
(1)  A European divisional application shall be  filed directly with the European Patent Office in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations.  It may be filed only in respect of subject-matter  which does not extend beyond the content of  the earlier application as filed; in so far as this  requirement is complied with, the divisional  application shall be deemed to have been filed  on the date of filing of the earlier application  and shall enjoy any right of priority.
(2)  All the Contracting States designated in  the earlier application at the time of filing of a  European  divisional  application  shall  be  deemed to be designated in the divisional  application.


77 Forwarding of European patent applications
(1)  The central industrial property office of a  Contracting State shall forward to the European  Patent Office any European patent application  filed with it or any other competent authority in  that State, in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations.
(2)  A European patent application the subject  of which has been made secret shall not be  forwarded to the European Patent Office.
(3)  A European patent application not forwarded to the European Patent Office in due  time shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
78 Requirements of a European patent  application
(1)  A European patent application shall contain:
(a)  a request for the grant of a European patent;
(b)  a description of the invention;
(c)  one or more claims;
(d)  any drawings referred to in the description or the claims;
(e)  an abstract,
and satisfy the requirements laid down in the  Implementing Regulations.


(2)72 A European patent application shall be  subject to the payment of the filing fee and the  search fee. If the filing fee or the search fee is  not paid in due time, the application shall be  deemed to be withdrawn.
79 Designation of Contracting States
(1)  All the Contracting States party to this  Convention at the time of filing of the European  patent application shall be deemed to be designated in the request for grant of a European  patent.
(2)74 The designation of a Contracting State  may be subject to the payment of a designation  fee.
(3)  The designation of a Contracting State  may be withdrawn at any time up to the grant of  the European patent.
80 Date of filing
The date of filing of a European patent application shall be the date on which the requirements  laid down in the Implementing Regulations are  fulfilled.


81 Designation of the inventor
The European patent application shall designate the inventor. If the applicant is not the  inventor or is not the sole inventor, the designation shall contain a statement indicating the origin of the right to the European patent.
82 Unity of invention
The European patent application shall relate to  one invention only or to a group of inventions so  linked as to form a single general inventive concept.
83 Disclosure of the invention
The European patent application shall disclose  the invention in a manner sufficiently clear and  complete for it to be carried out by a person  skilled in the art.
84 Claims
The claims shall define the matter for which  protection is sought. They shall be clear and  concise and be supported by the description.


85 Abstract
The abstract shall serve the purpose of technical information only; it may not be taken into  account for any other purpose, in particular for  interpreting the scope of the protection sought  or applying Article 54, paragraph 3.
86 Renewal fees for the European patent  application
(1)  Renewal fees for the European patent  application shall be paid to the European Patent  Office in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations. These fees shall be due in respect  of the third year and each subsequent year, calculated from the date of filing of the application.  If a renewal fee is not paid in due time, the  application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
(2)  The obligation to pay renewal fees shall  terminate with the payment of the renewal fee  due in respect of the year in which the mention  of the grant of the European patent is published  in the European Patent Bulletin.

87 Priority right
(1)  Any person who has duly filed, in or for
(a)  any State party to the Paris Convention  for the Protection of Industrial Property or


(b)  any Member of the World Trade Organization,
an application for a patent, a utility model or a  utility certificate, or his successor in title, shall  enjoy, for the purpose of filing a European patent application in respect of the same invention, a right of priority during a period of twelve  months from the date of filing of the first application.
(2)  Every filing that is equivalent to a regular  national filing under the national law of the  State where it was made or under bilateral or  multilateral agreements, including this Convention, shall be recognised as giving rise to a right  of priority.
(3)  A regular national filing shall mean any filing that is sufficient to establish the date on  which the application was filed, whatever the  outcome of the application may be.
(4)  A subsequent application in respect of the  same subject-matter as a previous first application and filed in or for the same State shall be  considered as the first application for the purposes of determining priority, provided that, at  the date of filing the subsequent application, the  previous application has been withdrawn,  abandoned or refused, without being open to  public inspection and without leaving any rights  outstanding, and has not served as a basis for  claiming a right of priority. The previous application may not thereafter serve as a basis for  claiming a right of priority.


(5)  If the first filing has been made with an  industrial property authority which is not subject  to the Paris Convention for the Protection of  Industrial Property or the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply if that authority,  according to a communication issued by the  President of the European Patent Office, recognises that a first filing made with the European  Patent Office gives rise to a right of priority  under conditions and with effects equivalent to  those laid down in the Paris Convention.
88 Claiming priority
(1)85 An applicant desiring to take advantage  of the priority of a previous application shall file  a declaration of priority and any other document  required, in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations.
(2)  Multiple priorities may be claimed in  respect of a European patent application, notwithstanding the fact that they originated in different countries. Where appropriate, multiple  priorities may be claimed for any one claim.  Where multiple priorities are claimed, time limits which run from the date of priority shall run from  the earliest date of priority.


(3)  If one or more priorities are claimed in  respect of a European patent application, the  right of priority shall cover only those elements  of the European patent application which are  included in the application or applications  whose priority is claimed.
(4)  If certain elements of the invention for  which priority is claimed do not appear among  the claims formulated in the previous application, priority may nonetheless be granted, provided that the documents of the previous application as a whole specifically disclose such elements.
89 Effect of priority right
The right of priority shall have the effect that the  date of priority shall count as the date of filing of  the European patent application for the purposes of Article 54, paragraphs 2 and 3, and  Article 60, paragraph 2.



90 Examination on filing and examination as to  formal requirements
(1)  The  European  Patent  Office  shall  examine, in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations, whether the application satisfies  the requirements for the accordance of a date  of filing.
(2)  If a date of filing cannot be accorded following the examination under paragraph 1, the  application shall not be dealt with as a European patent application.
(3)  If the European patent application has  been accorded a date of filing, the European  Patent Office shall examine, in accordance with  the Implementing Regulations, whether the  requirements in Articles 14, 78 and 81, and,  where applicable, Article 88, paragraph 1, and  Article 133, paragraph 2, as well as any other  requirement laid down in the Implementing  Regulations, have been satisfied.
(4)  Where the European Patent Office in carrying out the examination under paragraphs 1 or 3 notes that there are deficiencies which may  be corrected, it shall give the applicant an  opportunity to correct them.
(5)  If any deficiency noted in the examination  under paragraph 3 is not corrected, the European patent application shall be refused unless  a different legal consequence is provided for by  this Convention. Where the deficiency concerns  the right of priority, this right shall be lost for the  application.


9189
(deleted)
92 Drawing up of the European search report
The European Patent Office shall, in accordance with the Implementing Regulations, draw  up and publish a European search report in  respect of the European patent application on  the basis of the claims, with due regard to the  description and any drawings.
93 Publication of the European patent  application
(1)  The European Patent Office shall publish  the European patent application as soon as  possible
(a)  after the expiry of a period of eighteen  months from the date of filing or, if priority has  been claimed, from the date of priority, or
(b)  at the request of the applicant, before the  expiry of that period.
See opinion of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 2/98  (Annex I).


(2)  The European patent application shall be  published at the same time as the specification of  the European patent when the decision to grant  the patent becomes effective before the expiry of  the period referred to in paragraph 1(a).
94 Examination of the European patent  application
(1)  The European Patent Office shall, in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations,  examine on request whether the European patent application and the invention to which it  relates meet the requirements of this Convention. The request shall not be deemed to be  filed until the examination fee has been paid.96
(2)  If no request for examination has been  made in due time, the application shall be  deemed to be withdrawn.
(3)  If the examination reveals that the application or the invention to which it relates does  not meet the requirements of this Convention,  the Examining Division shall invite the applicant, as often as necessary, to file his observations and, subject to Article 123, paragraph 1, to amend the application.
(4)  If the applicant fails to reply in due time to  any communication from the Examining Division,  the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.


9597
(deleted)
9698
(deleted)
97 Grant or refusal
(1)  If the Examining Division is of the opinion  that the European patent application and the  invention to which it relates meet the requirements of this Convention, it shall decide to  grant a European patent, provided that the conditions laid down in the Implementing Regulations are fulfilled.
(2)  If the Examining Division is of the opinion  that the European patent application or the  invention to which it relates does not meet the  requirements of this Convention, it shall refuse  the application unless this Convention provides  for a different legal consequence.
(3)  The decision to grant a European patent  shall take effect on the date on which the mention of the grant is published in the European  Patent Bulletin.


98 Publication of the specification of the  European patent
The European Patent Office shall publish the  specification of the European patent as soon as  possible after the mention of the grant of the  European patent has been published in the  European Patent Bulletin.



99 Opposition
(1)  Within nine months of the publication of  the mention of the grant of the European patent  in the European Patent Bulletin, any person  may give notice to the European Patent Office  of opposition to that patent, in accordance with  the Implementing Regulations. Notice of opposition shall not be deemed to have been filed  until the opposition fee has been paid.
(2)  The opposition shall apply to the European patent in all the Contracting States in  which that patent has effect.
(3)  Opponents shall be parties to the opposition proceedings as well as the proprietor of the  patent.
(4)  Where a person provides evidence that in  a Contracting State, following a final decision,  he has been entered in the patent register of  such State instead of the previous proprietor,  such person shall, at his request, replace the  previous proprietor in respect of such State.  Notwithstanding Article 118, the previous proprietor and the person making the request shall not be regarded as joint proprietors unless both  so request.


100 Grounds for opposition
Opposition may only be filed on the grounds  that:
(a)  the subject-matter of the European patent  is not patentable under Articles 52 to 57;
(b)  the European patent does not disclose  the invention in a manner sufficiently clear and  complete for it to be carried out by a person  skilled in the art;
(c)  the subject-matter of the European patent  extends beyond the content of the application  as filed, or, if the patent was granted on a divisional application or on a new application filed  under Article 61, beyond the content of the earlier application as filed.
101 Examination of the opposition – Revocation  or maintenance of the European patent
(1)  If the opposition is admissible, the Opposition Division shall examine, in accordance  with the Implementing Regulations, whether at  least one ground for opposition under Article 100 prejudices the maintenance of the European patent. During this examination, the  Opposition Division shall invite the parties, as  often as necessary, to file observations on  communications from another party or issued  by itself.


(2)  If the Opposition Division is of the opinion  that at least one ground for opposition prejudices the maintenance of the European patent,  it shall revoke the patent. Otherwise, it shall  reject the opposition.
(3)108 If the Opposition Division is of the opinion  that, taking into consideration the amendments  made by the proprietor of the European patent  during the opposition proceedings, the patent  and the invention to which it relates
(a)  meet the requirements of this Convention,  it shall decide to maintain the patent as  amended, provided that the conditions laid  down in the Implementing Regulations are fulfilled;
(b)  do not meet the requirements of this Convention, it shall revoke the patent.
102109
(deleted)
103 Publication of a new specification of the  European patent
If the European patent is maintained as  amended under Article 101, paragraph 3(a), the  European Patent Office shall publish a new  specification of the European patent as soon as  possible after the mention of the opposition  decision has been published in the European  Patent Bulletin.


104 Costs
(1)  Each party to the opposition proceedings  shall bear the costs it has incurred, unless the  Opposition Division, for reasons of equity,  orders, in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations, a different apportionment of costs.
(2)  The procedure for fixing costs shall be  laid down in the Implementing Regulations.
(3)  Any final decision of the European Patent  Office fixing the amount of costs shall be dealt  with, for the purpose of enforcement in the Contracting States, in the same way as a final decision given by a civil court of the State in which  enforcement is to take place. Verification of  such decision shall be limited to its authenticity.
105 Intervention of the assumed infringer
(1)  Any third party may, in accordance with  the Implementing Regulations, intervene in  opposition proceedings after the opposition  period has expired, if the third party proves that
(a)  proceedings for infringement of the same  patent have been instituted against him, or
(b)  following a request of the proprietor of the  patent to cease alleged infringement, the third  party has instituted proceedings for a ruling that  he is not infringing the patent.
(2)  An admissible intervention shall be  treated as an opposition.


105a
(1)  At the request of the proprietor, the European patent may be revoked or be limited by an  amendment of the claims. The request shall be  filed with the European Patent Office in accordance with the Implementing Regulations. It  shall not be deemed to have been filed until the  limitation or revocation fee has been paid.
(2)  The request may not be filed while opposition proceedings in respect of the European  patent are pending.
105b
(1)  The European Patent Office shall examine whether the requirements laid down in the  Implementing Regulations for limiting or revoking the European patent have been met.
(2)  If the European Patent Office considers  that the request for limitation or revocation of  the European patent meets these requirements, it shall decide to limit or revoke the European  patent in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations. Otherwise, it shall reject the  request.
(3)  The decision to limit or revoke the European patent shall apply to the European patent  in all the Contracting States in respect of which  it has been granted. It shall take effect on the  date on which the mention of the decision is  published in the European Patent Bulletin.


105c
If the European patent is limited under  Article 105b, paragraph 2, the European Patent  Office shall publish the amended specification  of the European patent as soon as possible  after the mention of the limitation has been  published in the European Patent Bulletin.



106 Decisions subject to appeal
(1)  An appeal shall lie from decisions of the  Receiving Section, Examining Divisions, Opposition Divisions and the Legal Division. It shall  have suspensive effect.
(2)  A decision which does not terminate proceedings as regards one of the parties can only  be appealed together with the final decision,  unless the decision allows a separate appeal.
(3)  The right to file an appeal against  decisions relating to the apportionment or fixing  of costs in opposition proceedings may be  restricted in the Implementing Regulations.
107 Persons entitled to appeal and to be parties  to appeal proceedings
Any party to proceedings adversely affected by  a decision may appeal. Any other parties to the  proceedings shall be parties to the appeal proceedings as of right.


108 Time limit and form
Notice of appeal shall be filed, in accordance  with the Implementing Regulations, at the  European Patent Office within two months of  notification of the decision. Notice of appeal  shall not be deemed to have been filed until the  fee for appeal has been paid. Within four  months of notification of the decision, a statement setting out the grounds of appeal shall be  filed in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations.
109 Interlocutory revision
(1)  If the department whose decision is contested considers the appeal to be admissible  and well founded, it shall rectify its decision.  This shall not apply where the appellant is  opposed by another party to the proceedings.
(2)  If the appeal is not allowed within three  months of receipt of the statement of grounds, it  shall be remitted to the Board of Appeal without  delay, and without comment as to its merit.
110 Examination of appeals
If the appeal is admissible, the Board of Appeal  shall examine whether the appeal is allowable.  The examination of the appeal shall be conducted in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations.


111 Decision in respect of appeals
(1)  Following the examination as to the  allowability of the appeal, the Board of Appeal  shall decide on the appeal. The Board of  Appeal may either exercise any power within  the competence of the department which was  responsible for the decision appealed or remit  the case to that department for further  prosecution.
(2)  If the Board of Appeal remits the case for  further prosecution to the department whose  decision was appealed, that department shall  be bound by the ratio decidendi of the Board of  Appeal, in so far as the facts are the same. If  the decision under appeal was taken by the  Receiving Section, the Examining Division shall  also be bound by the ratio decidendi of the  Board of Appeal.
112 Decision or opinion of the Enlarged Board  of Appeal
(1)  In order to ensure uniform application of  the law, or if a point of law of fundamental  importance arises:
(a)  the Board of Appeal shall, during proceedings on a case and either of its own motion  or following a request from a party to the  appeal, refer any question to the Enlarged  Board of Appeal if it considers that a decision is  required for the above purposes. If the Board of  Appeal rejects the request, it shall give the reasons in its final decision;


(b)  the President of the European Patent  Office may refer a point of law to the Enlarged  Board of Appeal where two Boards of Appeal  have given different decisions on that question.
(2)  In the cases referred to in paragraph 1(a) the parties to the appeal proceedings shall be  parties to the proceedings before the Enlarged  Board of Appeal.
(3)  The decision of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal referred to in paragraph 1(a) shall be  binding on the Board of Appeal in respect of the  appeal in question.
112a
(1)  Any  party  to  appeal  proceedings  adversely affected by the decision of the Board  of Appeal may file a petition for review of the  decision by the Enlarged Board of Appeal.
(2)  The petition may only be filed on the  grounds that:
(a)  a member of the Board of Appeal took  part in the decision in breach of Article 24,  paragraph 1, or despite being excluded pursuant to a decision under Article 24, paragraph 4;
(b)  the Board of Appeal included a person  not appointed as a member of the Boards of  Appeal;
(c)  a fundamental violation of Article 113 occurred;


(d)  any other fundamental procedural defect  defined  in  the  Implementing  Regulations  occurred in the appeal proceedings; or
(e)  a criminal act established under the conditions laid down in the Implementing Regulations may have had an impact on the decision.
(3)  The petition for review shall not have suspensive effect.
(4)  The petition for review shall be filed in a  reasoned statement, in accordance with the  Implementing Regulations. If based on paragraph 2(a) to (d), the petition shall be filed  within two months of notification of the decision  of the Board of Appeal. If based on paragraph 2(e), the petition shall be filed within two  months of the date on which the criminal act  has been established and in any event no later  than five years from notification of the decision  of the Board of Appeal. The petition shall not be  deemed to have been filed until after the prescribed fee has been paid.
(5)  The Enlarged Board of Appeal shall  examine the petition for review in accordance  with the Implementing Regulations. If the  petition is allowable, the Enlarged Board of  Appeal shall set aside the decision and shall  re-open proceedings before the Boards of  Appeal in accordance with the Implementing  Regulations.
(6)  Any person who, in a designated Contracting State, has in good faith used or made  effective and serious preparations for using an  invention which is the subject of a published  European patent application or a European  patent in the period between the decision of the  Board of Appeal and publication in the European Patent Bulletin of the mention of the decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal on the  petition, may without payment continue such  use in the course of his business or for the  needs thereof.




113 Right to be heard and basis of decisions
(1)  The decisions of the European Patent  Office may only be based on grounds or  evidence on which the parties concerned have  had an opportunity to present their comments.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall examine, and decide upon, the European patent  application or the European patent only in the  text submitted to it, or agreed, by the applicant  or the proprietor of the patent.
114 Examination by the European Patent Office  of its own motion
(1)  In proceedings before it, the European  Patent Office shall examine the facts of its own  motion; it shall not be restricted in this examination to the facts, evidence and arguments provided by the parties and the relief sought.
(2)  The European Patent Office may disregard facts or evidence which are not submitted  in due time by the parties concerned.


115 Observations by third parties
In proceedings before the European Patent  Office, following the publication of the European  patent application, any third party may, in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations,  present observations concerning the patentability of the invention to which the application or  patent relates. That person shall not be a party  to the proceedings.
116 Oral proceedings
(1)  Oral proceedings shall take place either  at the instance of the European Patent Office if  it considers this to be expedient or at the  request of any party to the proceedings.  However, the European Patent Office may  reject a request for further oral proceedings  before the same department where the parties  and the subject of the proceedings are the  same.
See decision of the President of the EPO and notice  from the EPO of 14.04.2020 concerning the pilot project for oral proceedings by videoconference before  opposition divisions (OJ EPO 2020, A41, A42 and  A72).
See notices of the Vice-President DG 3 (Special edition No. 3 OJ EPO 2007, H.1, H.2 and H.3; OJ EPO  2014, A21).


(2)  Nevertheless, oral proceedings shall take  place before the Receiving Section at the  request of the applicant only where the  Receiving  Section  considers  this  to  be  expedient or where it intends to refuse the  European patent application.
(3)  Oral proceedings before the Receiving  Section, the Examining Divisions and the Legal  Division shall not be public.
(4)  Oral proceedings, including delivery of  the decision, shall be public, as regards the  Boards of Appeal and the Enlarged Board of  Appeal, after publication of the European patent  application, and also before the Opposition  Divisions, in so far as the department before  which the proceedings are taking place does  not decide otherwise in cases where admission  of the public could have serious and unjustified  disadvantages, in particular for a party to the  proceedings.
117 Means and taking of evidence
(1)  In proceedings before the European Patent Office the means of giving or obtaining evidence shall include the following:
(a)  hearing the parties;
(b)  requests for information;
(c)  production of documents;
(d)  hearing witnesses;
(e)  opinions by experts;
(f)  inspection;
(g)  sworn statements in writing.


(2)  The procedure for taking such evidence  shall be laid down in the Implementing Regulations.
118 Unity of the European patent application or  European patent
Where the applicants for or proprietors of a European patent are not the same in respect of different designated Contracting States, they  shall be regarded as joint applicants or proprietors for the purposes of proceedings before the  European Patent Office. The unity of the application or patent in these proceedings shall not be affected; in particular the text of the application or patent shall be uniform for all designated  Contracting States, unless this Convention provides otherwise.
119 Notification
Decisions, summonses, notices and communications shall be notified by the European Patent  Office of its own motion in accordance with the  Implementing Regulations. Notification may,  where exceptional circumstances so require, be  effected through the intermediary of the central  industrial property offices of the Contracting  States.


120 Time limits
The Implementing Regulations shall specify:
(a)  the time limits which are to be observed  in proceedings before the European Patent  Office and are not fixed by this Convention;
(b)  the manner of computation of time limits  and the conditions under which time limits may  be extended;
(c)  the minima and maxima for time limits to  be determined by the European Patent Office.
121 Further processing of the European patent  application
(1)  If an applicant fails to observe a time limit  vis-à-vis the European Patent Office, he may request further processing of the European patent application.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall grant  the request, provided that the requirements laid  down in the Implementing Regulations are met.  Otherwise, it shall reject the request.
(3)  If the request is granted, the legal consequences of the failure to observe the time limit  shall be deemed not to have ensued.
(4)  Further processing shall be ruled out in  respect of the time limits in Article 87, paragraph 1, Article 108 and Article 112a, paragraph 4, as well as the time limits for requesting  further processing or re-establishment of rights.  The Implementing Regulations may rule out further processing for other time limits.


122 Re-establishment of rights
(1)  An applicant for or proprietor of a European patent who, in spite of all due care required  by the circumstances having been taken, was  unable to observe a time limit vis-à-vis the  European Patent Office shall have his rights  re-established upon request if the non-observance of this time limit has the direct consequence of causing the refusal of the European  patent application or of a request, or the deeming  of the application to have been withdrawn, or the  revocation of the European patent, or the loss of  any other right or means of redress.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall grant  the request, provided that the conditions of  paragraph 1 and any other requirements laid  down in the Implementing Regulations are met.  Otherwise, it shall reject the request.
(3)  If the request is granted, the legal consequences of the failure to observe the time limit  shall be deemed not to have ensued.
(4)  Re-establishment of rights shall be ruled  out in respect of the time limit for requesting  re-establishment of rights. The Implementing  Regulations may rule out re-establishment for  other time limits.
(5)  Any person who, in a designated Contracting State, has in good faith used or made  effective and serious preparations for using an  invention which is the subject of a published  European patent application or a European  patent in the period between the loss of rights  referred to in paragraph 1 and publication in the  European Patent Bulletin of the mention of  re-establishment of those rights, may without  payment continue such use in the course of his  business or for the needs thereof.


(6)  Nothing in this Article shall limit the right  of a Contracting State to grant re-establishment  of rights in respect of time limits provided for in  this Convention and to be observed vis-à-vis the authorities of such State.
123 Amendments
(1)  The European patent application or European patent may be amended in proceedings  before the European Patent Office, in accordance with the Implementing Regulations. In  any event, the applicant shall be given at least  one opportunity to amend the application of his  own volition.
(2)  The European patent application or European patent may not be amended in such a  way that it contains subject-matter which  extends beyond the content of the application  as filed.
(3)  The European patent may not be  amended in such a way as to extend the protection it confers.
124 Information on prior art
(1)  The European Patent Office may, in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations,  invite the applicant to provide information on  prior art taken into consideration in national or  regional patent proceedings and concerning an  invention to which the European patent application relates.


(2)  If the applicant fails to reply in due time to  an invitation under paragraph 1, the European  patent application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
125 Reference to general principles
In the absence of procedural provisions in this  Convention, the European Patent Office shall  take into account the principles of procedural  law generally recognised in the Contracting  States.
126147
(deleted)

127 European Patent Register
The European Patent Office shall keep a European Patent Register, in which the particulars  specified in the Implementing Regulations shall  be recorded. No entry shall be made in the  European Patent Register before the publication of the European patent application. The  European Patent Register shall be open to public inspection.


128 Inspection of files
(1)  Files relating to European patent applications which have not yet been published shall  not be made available for inspection without the  consent of the applicant.
(2)  Any person who can prove that the applicant has invoked the rights under the European  patent application against him may obtain  inspection of the files before the publication of  that application and without the consent of the  applicant.
(3)  Where a European divisional application  or a new European patent application filed  under Article 61, paragraph 1, is published, any  person may obtain inspection of the files of the  earlier application before the publication of that  application and without the consent of the  applicant.
(4)151 After the publication of the European patent application, the files relating to the application and the resulting European patent may be  inspected on request, subject to the restrictions  laid down in the Implementing Regulations.
(5)  Even before the publication of the European patent application, the European Patent  Office may communicate to third parties or publish the particulars specified in the Implementing Regulations.


129 Periodical publications
The European Patent Office shall periodically  publish:
(a)  a European Patent Bulletin containing the  particulars the publication of which is prescribed  by this Convention, the Implementing Regulations or the President of the European Patent  Office;
(b)  an Official Journal containing notices and  information of a general character issued by the  President of the European Patent Office, as  well as any other information relevant to this  Convention or its implementation.
130 Exchange of information
(1)  Unless this Convention or national laws  provide otherwise, the European Patent Office  and the central industrial property office of any  Contracting State shall, on request, communicate to each other any useful information  regarding European or national patent applications and patents and any proceedings concerning them.
(2)  Paragraph 1 shall apply to the communication of information by virtue of working agreements between the European Patent Office and
(a)  the central industrial property offices of  other States;
(b)  any  intergovernmental  organisation  entrusted with the task of granting patents;
(c)  any other organisation.


(3)  Communications under paragraphs 1 and  2(a) and (b) shall not be subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 128. The Administrative Council may decide that communications  under paragraph 2(c) shall not be subject to  such restrictions, provided that the organisation  concerned treats the information communicated  as confidential until the European patent application has been published.
131 Administrative and legal co-operation
(1)  Unless this Convention or national laws  provide otherwise, the European Patent Office  and the courts or authorities of Contracting  States shall on request give assistance to each  other by communicating information or opening  files for inspection. Where the European Patent  Office makes files available for inspection by  courts, Public Prosecutors' Offices or central  industrial property offices, the inspection shall  not be subject to the restrictions laid down in  Article 128.
(2)  At the request of the European Patent  Office, the courts or other competent authorities  of Contracting States shall undertake, on behalf  of the Office and within the limits of their  jurisdiction, any necessary enquiries or other  legal measures.
132 Exchange of publications
(1)  The European Patent Office and the central industrial property offices of the Contracting  States shall despatch to each other on request  and for their own use one or more copies of  their respective publications free of charge.
(2)  The European Patent Office may conclude agreements relating to the exchange or  supply of publications.



133 General principles of representation
(1)  Subject to paragraph 2, no person shall  be compelled to be represented by a professional representative in proceedings established by this Convention.
(2)  Natural or legal persons not having their  residence or principal place of business in a  Contracting State shall be represented by a  professional representative and act through him  in all proceedings established by this Convention, other than in filing a European patent  application; the Implementing Regulations may  permit other exceptions.
(3)  Natural or legal persons having their  residence or principal place of business in a  Contracting State may be represented in  proceedings established by this Convention by  an employee, who need not be a professional  representative but who shall be authorised in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations.  The Implementing Regulations may provide  whether  and  under  what  conditions  an  employee of a legal person may also represent  other legal persons which have their principal  place of business in a Contracting State and  which have economic connections with the first  legal person.
(4)  The Implementing Regulations may lay  down special provisions concerning the common representation of parties acting in common.


134 Representation before the European Patent  Office
(1)  Representation of natural or legal persons in proceedings established by this Convention may only be undertaken by professional  representatives whose names appear on a list  maintained for this purpose by the European  Patent Office.
(2)  Any natural person who
(a)  is a national of a Contracting State,
(b)  has his place of business or employment  in a Contracting State and
(c)158 has passed the European qualifying  examination
may be entered on the list of professional representatives.
(3)  During a period of one year from the date  on which the accession of a State to this Convention takes effect, entry on that list may also  be requested by any natural person who
(a)  is a national of a Contracting State,
See decisions of the Enlarged Board of Appeal  G 2/94, G 4/95, G 3/99, G 2/04 (Annex I).


(b)  has his place of business or employment  in the State having acceded to the Convention  and
(c)  is entitled to represent natural or legal  persons in patent matters before the central  industrial property office of that State. Where  such entitlement is not conditional upon the  requirement of special professional qualifications, the person shall have regularly so acted  in that State for at least five years.
(4)  Entry shall be effected upon request,  accompanied by certificates indicating that the  conditions laid down in paragraph 2 or 3 are  fulfilled.
(5)  Persons whose names appear on the list  of professional representatives shall be entitled  to act in all proceedings established by this  Convention.
(6)  For the purpose of acting as a professional representative, any person whose name  appears on the list of professional representatives shall be entitled to establish a place of  business in any Contracting State in which proceedings established by this Convention may  be conducted, having regard to the Protocol on  Centralisation annexed to this Convention. The  authorities of such State may remove that entitlement in individual cases only in application of  legal provisions adopted for the purpose of  protecting public security and law and order.  Before such action is taken, the President of the  European Patent Office shall be consulted.
(7)159 The President of the European Patent  Office may grant exemption from:
(a)  the requirement of paragraphs 2(a) or  3(a) in special circumstances;


(b)  the requirement of paragraph 3(c), second sentence, if the applicant furnishes proof  that he has acquired the requisite qualification  in another way.
(8)  Representation in proceedings established by this Convention may also be undertaken, in the same way as by a professional  representative, by any legal practitioner qualified in a Contracting State and having his place  of business in that State, to the extent that he is  entitled in that State to act as a professional  representative in patent matters. Paragraph 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
134a
(1)  The Administrative Council shall be competent to adopt and amend provisions governing:
(a)161 the Institute of Professional Representatives before the European Patent Office, hereinafter referred to as the Institute;
See decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 31/08 of 10.12.2008 determining the members of  the Institute of Professional Representatives before  the European Patent Office to whom Article 15 of the  Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European  Patent Organisation applies (OJ EPO 2009, 28), which  entered into force on 01.01.2009.


(b)  the qualifications and training required of  a person for admission to the European qualifying examination and the conduct of such  examination;162
(c)163 the disciplinary power exercised by the  Institute or the European Patent Office in  respect of professional representatives;
(d)  the obligation of confidentiality on the professional representative and the privilege from  disclosure in proceedings before the European  Patent Office in respect of communications  between a professional representative and his  client or any other person.
(2)  Any person entered on the list of professional representatives referred to in Article 134,  paragraph 1, shall be a member of the Institute.




135 Request for conversion
(1)  The central industrial property office of a  designated Contracting State shall, at the  request of the applicant for or proprietor of a  European patent, apply the procedure for the  grant of a national patent in the following  circumstances:
(a)  where the European patent application is  deemed to be withdrawn under Article 77, paragraph 3;
(b)  in such other cases as are provided for by  the national law, in which the European patent  application is refused or withdrawn or deemed  to be withdrawn, or the European patent is  revoked under this Convention.
(2)  In the case referred to in paragraph 1(a), the request for conversion shall be filed with the  central industrial property office with which the  European patent application has been filed.  That office shall, subject to the provisions governing national security, transmit the request  directly to the central industrial property offices  of the Contracting States specified therein.


(3)  In the cases referred to in paragraph 1(b), the request for conversion shall be submitted to  the European Patent Office in accordance with  the Implementing Regulations. It shall not be  deemed to be filed until the conversion fee has  been paid. The European Patent Office shall  transmit the request to the central industrial  property offices of the Contracting States specified therein.
(4)  The effect of the European patent application referred to in Article 66 shall lapse if the  request for conversion is not submitted in due  time.
136165
(deleted)
137 Formal requirements for conversion
(1)  A European patent application transmitted in accordance with Article 135, paragraph 2 or 3, shall not be subjected to formal requirements of national law which are different from  or additional to those provided for in this Convention.
(2)  Any central industrial property office to  which the European patent application is transmitted may require that the applicant shall,  within a period of not less than two months:
(a)  pay the national application fee; and


(b)  file a translation of the original text of the  European patent application in an official language of the State in question and, where  appropriate, of the text as amended during proceedings before the European Patent Office  which the applicant wishes to use as the basis  for the national procedure.

138 Revocation of European patents
(1)  Subject to Article 139, a European patent  may be revoked with effect for a Contracting  State only on the grounds that:
(a)  the subject-matter of the European patent  is not patentable under Articles 52 to 57;
(b)  the European patent does not disclose  the invention in a manner sufficiently clear and  complete for it to be carried out by a person  skilled in the art;
(c)168 the subject-matter of the European patent  extends beyond the content of the application  as filed or, if the patent was granted on a divisional application or on a new application filed  under Article 61, beyond the content of the earlier application as filed;
(d)  the protection conferred by the European  patent has been extended; or
(e)  the proprietor of the European patent is  not entitled under Article 60, paragraph 1.


(2)  If the grounds for revocation affect the  European patent only in part, the patent shall  be limited by a corresponding amendment of  the claims and revoked in part.
(3)  In proceedings before the competent  court or authority relating to the validity of the  European patent, the proprietor of the patent  shall have the right to limit the patent by  amending the claims. The patent as thus limited  shall form the basis for the proceedings.
139 Prior rights and rights arising on the same  date
(1)  In any designated Contracting State a  European patent application and a European  patent shall have with regard to a national patent application and a national patent the same  prior right effect as a national patent application  and a national patent.
(2)  A national patent application and a national patent in a Contracting State shall have  with regard to a European patent designating  that Contracting State the same prior right  effect as if the European patent were a national  patent.
(3)  Any Contracting State may prescribe  whether and on what terms an invention disclosed in both a European patent application or  patent and a national application or patent having the same date of filing or, where priority is  claimed, the same date of priority, may be protected simultaneously by both applications or  patents.



140 National utility models and utility certificates
 66, 124, 135, 137 a
141 Renewal fees for European patents
(1)  Renewal fees for a European patent may  only be imposed for the years which follow that  referred to in Article 86, paragraph 2.
(2)  Any renewal fees falling due within two  months of the publication in the European Patent Bulletin of the mention of the grant of the  European patent shall be deemed to have been  validly paid if they are paid within that period.  Any additional fee provided for under national  law shall not be charged.



142 Unitary patents
(1)  Any group of Contracting States, which  has provided by a special agreement that a  European patent granted for those States has a  unitary character throughout their territories,  may provide that a European patent may only  be granted jointly in respect of all those States.
(2)  Where any group of Contracting States  has availed itself of the authorisation given in  paragraph 1, the provisions of this Part shall  apply.
143 Special departments of the European Patent  Office
(1)  The group of Contracting States may give  additional tasks to the European Patent Office.
(2)  Special departments common to the Contracting States in the group may be set up  within the European Patent Office in order to  carry out the additional tasks. The President of  the European Patent Office shall direct such  special departments; Article 10, paragraphs 2 and 3, shall apply mutatis mutandis.


144 Representation before special departments
The group of Contracting States may lay down  special provisions to govern representation of  parties before the departments referred to in  Article 143, paragraph 2.
145 Select committee of the Administrative  Council
(1)  The group of Contracting States may set  up a select committee of the Administrative  Council for the purpose of supervising the  activities of the special departments set up  under Article 143, paragraph 2; the European  Patent Office shall place at its disposal such  staff, premises and equipment as may be  necessary for the performance of its duties. The  President of the European Patent Office shall  be responsible for the activities of the special  departments to the select committee of the  Administrative Council.
(2)  The composition, powers and functions of  the select committee shall be determined by the  group of Contracting States.
146 Cover for expenditure for carrying out  special tasks
Where additional tasks have been given to the  European Patent Office under Article 143, the group of Contracting States shall bear the  expenses incurred by the Organisation in  carrying out these tasks. Where special  departments have been set up in the European  Patent Office to carry out these additional tasks, the group shall bear the expenditure on staff,  premises and equipment chargeable in respect  of these departments. Article 39, paragraphs 3 and 4, Article 41 and Article 47 shall apply  mutatis mutandis.


147 Payments in respect of renewal fees for  unitary patents
If the group of Contracting States has fixed a  common scale of renewal fees in respect of  European patents, the proportion referred to in  Article 39, paragraph 1, shall be calculated on  the basis of the common scale; the minimum  amount referred to in Article 39, paragraph 1, shall apply to the unitary patent. Article 39,  paragraphs 3 and 4, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
148 The European patent application as an  object of property
(1)  Article 74 shall apply unless the group of  Contracting States has specified otherwise.
(2)  The group of Contracting States may provide that a European patent application for  which these Contracting States are designated  may only be transferred, mortgaged or subjected to any legal means of execution in respect of all the Contracting States of the group  and in accordance with the provisions of the  special agreement.
149 Joint designation
(1)  The group of Contracting States may provide that these States may only be designated  jointly, and that the designation of one or some  only of such States shall be deemed to constitute the designation of all the States of the  group.


(2)  Where the European Patent Office acts  as a designated Office under Article 153, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 shall apply if the applicant  has indicated in the international application  that he wishes to obtain a European patent for  one or more of the designated States of the  group. The same shall apply if the applicant  designates in the international application one  of the Contracting States in the group, whose  national law provides that the designation of  that State shall have the effect of the application being for a European patent.
149a
(1)  Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as limiting the right of some or all of the  Contracting States to conclude special agreements on any matters concerning European  patent applications or European patents which  under this Convention are subject to and governed by national law, such as, in particular
(a)  an agreement establishing a European  patent court common to the Contracting States  party to it;
(b)  an agreement establishing an entity common to the Contracting States party to it to  deliver, at the request of national courts or  quasi-judicial authorities, opinions on issues of  European or harmonised national patent law;


(c)175 an agreement under which the Contracting States party to it dispense fully or in part  with translations of European patents under  Article 65;
(d)  an agreement under which the Contracting States party to it provide that translations of  European patents as required under Article 65 may be filed with, and published by, the European Patent Office.
(2)  The Administrative Council shall be competent to decide that:
(a)  the members of the Boards of Appeal or  the Enlarged Board of Appeal may serve on a  European patent court or a common entity and  take part in proceedings before that court or  entity in accordance with any such agreement;
(b)  the European Patent Office shall provide  a common entity with such support staff, premises and equipment as may be necessary for  the performance of its duties, and the expenses  incurred by that entity shall be borne fully or in  part by the Organisation.



150 Application of the Patent Cooperation Treaty
(1)  The  Patent  Cooperation  Treaty  of 19 June 1970, hereinafter referred to as the  PCT, shall be applied in accordance with the  provisions of this Part.
(2)177 International applications filed under the  PCT may be the subject of proceedings before  the European Patent Office. In such proceedings, the provisions of the PCT and its Regulations shall be applied, supplemented by the  provisions of this Convention. In case of conflict, the provisions of the PCT or its Regulations shall prevail.


151 The European Patent Office as a receiving  Office
The European Patent Office shall act as a receiving Office within the meaning of the PCT, in  accordance with the Implementing Regulations.  Article 75, paragraph 2, shall apply.


152 The European Patent Office as an  International Searching Authority or  International Preliminary Examining  Authority
The European Patent Office shall act as an  International Searching Authority and International Preliminary Examining Authority within  the meaning of the PCT, in accordance with an  agreement between the Organisation and the  International Bureau of the World Intellectual  Property Organization, for applicants who are  residents or nationals of a State party to this  Convention. This agreement may provide that  the European Patent Office shall also act  for other applicants.
153 The European Patent Office as designated  Office or elected Office
(1)  The European Patent Office shall be
(a)  a designated Office for any State party to  this Convention in respect of which the PCT is  in force, which is designated in the international  application and for which the applicant wishes  to obtain a European patent, and
See notice from the EPO concerning the carrying out  of Supplementary International Searches under the  PCT (OJ EPO 2010, 316, and 2014, A117, pt. 3).
See notice from the EPO of 08.03.2017 concerning  the processing by the EPO as ISA of informal comments on earlier search results ("PCT Direct")  (OJ EPO 2017, A21).
See notices from the EPO concerning the introduction of a "top-up" search in the procedure under 


(b)  an elected Office, if the applicant has  elected a State designated pursuant to letter (a).
(2)  An international application for which the  European Patent Office is a designated or  elected Office, and which has been accorded  an international date of filing, shall be equivalent  to  a  regular  European  application  (Euro-PCT application).
(3)  The  international  publication  of  a  Euro-PCT application in an official language of  the European Patent Office shall take the place  of the publication of the European patent application and shall be mentioned in the European  Patent Bulletin.
(4)  If the Euro-PCT application is published  in another language, a translation into one of  the official languages shall be filed with the European Patent Office, which shall publish it.  Subject to Article 67, paragraph 3, the provisional protection under Article 67, paragraphs 1 and 2, shall be effective from the date of that  publication.
(5)  The  Euro-PCT  application  shall  be  treated as a European patent application and  shall be considered as comprised in the state of  the art under Article 54, paragraph 3, if the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 or 4 and in the  Implementing Regulations are fulfilled.
(6)  The international search report drawn up  in respect of a Euro-PCT application or the declaration replacing it, and their international publication, shall take the place of the European  search report and the mention of its publication  in the European Patent Bulletin.


(7)181 A supplementary European search report  shall be drawn up in respect of any Euro-PCT  application under paragraph 5. The Administrative Council may decide that the supplementary  search report is to be dispensed with or that the  search fee is to be reduced.
154182
(deleted)
155183
(deleted)
156184
(deleted)
See decision of the Administrative Council CA/D 8/15  of 16.12.2015 (OJ EPO 2016, A2) reducing the fee for  the supplementary European search where the international search report or supplementary international  search report was drawn up by the Austrian Patent Office, the Finnish Patent and Registration Office, the  Spanish Patent and Trademark Office, the Swedish  Patent and Registration Office, the Nordic Patent Institute or the Visegrad Patent Institute. This decision is  applicable to international applications filed up to and  including 31.03.2020 where the fee for the supplementary European search is paid on or after 01.07.2016.
See decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 16/17 of 13.12. 2017 (OJ EPO 2018, A3) abrogating decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 10/05 (OJ EPO 2005, 548) concerning cases  where the search fee for the supplementary European  search is to be reduced.


157185
(deleted)
158186
(deleted)



(deleted)



159 Implementing Regulations and Protocols
(1)  The Implementing Regulations, the Protocol on Recognition, the Protocol on Privileges  and Immunities, the Protocol on Centralisation,  the Protocol on the Interpretation of Article 69 and the Protocol on Staff Complement shall be  integral parts of this Convention.
(2)189 In case of conflict between the provisions  of this Convention and those of the Implementing Regulations, the provisions of this Convention shall prevail.
160 Signature – Ratification
(1)190 This Convention shall be open for signature until 5 April 1974 by the States which took  part in the Inter-Governmental Conference for  the setting up of a European System for the  Grant of Patents or were informed of the holding of that conference and offered the option of  taking part therein.
(2)  This Convention shall be subject to  ratification; instruments of ratification shall be  deposited with the Government of the Federal  Republic of Germany.
Conference participants: signatory states plus  ES, FI, PT, TR, YU.
Invited states: Conference participants plus CY, IS.


161 Accession
(1)  This Convention shall be open to accession by:
(a)  the States referred to in Article 165, paragraph 1;
(b)  any other European State at the invitation  of the Administrative Council.
(2)  Any State which has been a party to the  Convention and has ceased to be so as a result  of the application of Article 172, paragraph 4, may again become a party to the Convention by  acceding to it.
(3)  Instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.
167191
(deleted)
163 Territorial field of application
(1)  Any Contracting State may declare in its  instrument of ratification or accession, or may  inform the Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany by written notification at any time  thereafter, that this Convention shall be applicable to one or more of the territories for the  external relations of which it is responsible.  European patents granted for that Contracting  State shall also have effect in the territories for  which such a declaration has taken effect.


(2)  If the declaration referred to in paragraph 1 is contained in the instrument of  ratification or accession, it shall take effect on  the same date as the ratification or accession; if  the declaration is notified after the deposit of  the instrument of ratification or accession, such  notification shall take effect six months after the  date of its receipt by the Government of the  Federal Republic of Germany.
(3)  Any Contracting State may at any time  declare that the Convention shall cease to  apply to some or to all of the territories in  respect of which it has given notification  pursuant to paragraph 1. Such declaration shall  take effect one year after the date on which the  Government  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany received notification thereof.


164 Entry into force
(1)  This Convention shall enter into force  three months after the deposit of the last  instrument of ratification or accession by six  States on whose territory the total number of  patent applications filed in 1970 amounted to at  least 180 000 for all the said States.
(2)  Any ratification or accession after the  entry into force of this Convention shall take  effect on the first day of the third month after the deposit of the instrument of ratification or  accession.
165 Initial contribution
(1)  Any State which ratifies or accedes to this  Convention after its entry into force shall pay to  the Organisation an initial contribution, which  shall not be refunded.


(2)  The initial contribution shall be 5% of an  amount calculated by applying the percentage  obtained for the State in question, on the date  on which ratification or accession takes effect,  in accordance with the scale provided for in  Article 40, paragraphs 3 and 4, to the sum of the  special financial contributions due from the  other Contracting States in respect of the  accounting periods preceding the date referred  to above.
(3)  In the event that special financial contributions were not required in respect of the  accounting period immediately preceding the  date referred to in paragraph 2, the scale of  contributions referred to in that paragraph shall  be the scale that would have been applicable to  the State concerned in respect of the last year  for which financial contributions were required.
166 Duration of the Convention
The present Convention shall be of unlimited  duration.
167 Revision
(1)  This Convention may be revised by a  Conference of the Contracting States.
(2)  The Conference shall be prepared and  convened by the Administrative Council. The  Conference shall not be validly constituted  unless at least three-quarters of the Contracting  States are represented at it. Adoption of the  revised text shall require a majority of  three-quarters  of  the  Contracting  States  represented and voting at the Conference.  Abstentions shall not be considered as votes.
(3)  The revised text shall enter into force  when it has been ratified or acceded to by the  number of Contracting States specified by the  Conference, and at the time specified by that  Conference.


(4)  Such States as have not ratified or  acceded to the revised text of the Convention at  the time of its entry into force shall cease to be  parties to this Convention as from that time.
168 Disputes between Contracting States
(1)  Any dispute between Contracting States  concerning the interpretation or application of  the present Convention which is not settled by  negotiation shall be submitted, at the request of  one of the States concerned, to the Administrative Council, which shall endeavour to bring  about agreement between the States concerned.
(2)  If such agreement is not reached within  six months from the date when the dispute was  referred to the Administrative Council, any one  of the States concerned may submit the dispute  to the International Court of Justice for a binding decision.
169 Denunciation
Any Contracting State may at any time  denounce this Convention. Denunciation shall  be notified to the Government of the Federal  Republic of Germany. It shall take effect one  year after the date of receipt of such  notification.
170 Preservation of acquired rights
(1)  In the event of a State ceasing to be party  to this Convention in accordance with Article 172, paragraph 4, or Article 174, rights  already acquired pursuant to this Convention  shall not be impaired.


(2)  A European patent application which is  pending when a designated State ceases to be  party to the Convention shall be processed by  the European Patent Office, as far as that State  is concerned, as if the Convention in force  thereafter were applicable to that State.
(3)  Paragraph 2 shall apply to European patents in respect of which, on the date mentioned  in that paragraph, an opposition is pending or  the opposition period has not expired.
(4)  Nothing in this Article shall affect the right  of any State that has ceased to be a party to  this Convention to treat any European patent in  accordance with the text to which it was a party.
171 Financial rights and obligations of former  Contracting States
(1)  Any State which has ceased to be a party  to this Convention in accordance with Article 172, paragraph 4, or Article 174, shall have  the special financial contributions which it has paid  pursuant  to  Article 40,  paragraph 2, refunded to it by the Organisation only at the  time when and under the conditions whereby  the Organisation refunds special financial  contributions paid by other States during the  same accounting period.
(2)  The State referred to in paragraph 1 shall,  even after ceasing to be a party to this Convention, continue to pay the proportion pursuant to  Article 39 of renewal fees in respect of European patents remaining in force in that State, at  the rate current on the date on which it ceased  to be a party.


172 Languages of the Convention
(1)  This Convention, drawn up in a single  original, in the English, French and German languages, shall be deposited in the archives of  the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, the three texts being equally authentic.
(2)  The texts of this Convention drawn up in  official languages of Contracting States other  than those specified in paragraph 1 shall, if they  have been approved by the Administrative  Council, be considered as official texts. In the  event of disagreement on the interpretation of  the various texts, the texts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be authentic.
173 Transmission and notifications
(1)  The Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany shall draw up certified true copies  of this Convention and shall transmit them to  the Governments of all signatory or acceding  States.
(2)  The Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany shall notify to the Governments of  the States referred to in paragraph 1:
(a)  the deposit of any instrument of ratification or accession;
(b)  any declaration or notification received  pursuant to Article 168;
(c)  any denunciation received pursuant to  Article 174 and the date on which such  denunciation comes into force.
(3)  The Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany shall register this Convention with  the Secretariat of the United Nations.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plenipotentiaries  authorised thereto, having presented their Full  Powers, found to be in good and due form,  have signed this Convention.
Done at Munich this fifth day of October one  thousand nine hundred and seventy-three

Table of contents


R. 1  Written proceedings
R. 2  Filing of and formal requirements  for documents
R. 3  Language in written proceedings
R. 4  Language in oral proceedings
R. 5  Certification of translations
R. 6  Filing of translations and reduction  of fees
R. 7  Legal authenticity of the translation  of the European patent application

Section 1   General matters
R. 8  Patent classification
R. 9  Administrative structure of the  European Patent Office
R. 10  Responsibility of the Receiving  Section and the Examining  Division
R. 11  Allocation of duties to the  departments of first instance

Table of contents
Section 2   Organisation of the Boards of Appeal and  the Enlarged Board of Appeal
R. 12  (deleted)
R. 12a  Organisation and management of  the Boards of Appeal Unit and  President of the Boards of Appeal
R. 12b  Presidium of the Boards of Appeal  and business distribution scheme  for the Boards of Appeal
R. 12c  Boards of Appeal Committee and  procedure for adoption of the  Rules of Procedure of the Boards  of Appeal and of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal
R. 12d  Appointment and re-appointment  of the members, including the  Chairmen, of the Boards of Appeal  and of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal
R. 13  Business distribution scheme for  the Enlarged Board of Appeal


R. 14  Stay of proceedings
R. 15  Limitation on withdrawals
R. 16  Procedure under Article 61,  paragraph 1

Table of contents
R. 17  Filing of a new European patent  application by the entitled person
R. 18  Partial transfer of the right to the  European patent

R. 19  Designation of the inventor
R. 20  Publication of the mention of the  inventor
R. 21  Rectification of the designation of  an inventor

R. 22  Registration of transfers
R. 23  Registration of licences and other  rights
R. 24  Special entries for licence  registrations

R. 25  Certificate of exhibition

R. 26  General and definitions
R. 27  Patentable biotechnological  inventions
R. 28  Exceptions to patentability
R. 29  The human body and its elements

Table of contents
R. 30  Requirements of European patent  applications relating to nucleotide  and amino acid sequences
R. 31  Deposit of biological material
R. 32  Expert solution
R. 33  Availability of biological material
R. 34  New deposit of biological material


R. 35  General provisions
R. 36  European divisional applications
R. 37  Forwarding of European patent  applications
R. 38  Filing fee and search fee
R. 39  Designation fees
R. 40  Date of filing

R. 41  Request for grant
R. 42  Content of the description
R. 43  Form and content of claims
R. 44  Unity of invention

Table of contents
R. 45  Claims incurring fees
R. 46  Form of the drawings
R. 47  Form and content of the abstract
R. 48  Prohibited matter
R. 49  General provisions governing the  presentation of the application  documents
R. 50  Documents filed subsequently

R. 51  Payment of renewal fees

R. 52  Declaration of priority
R. 53  Priority documents
R. 54  Issuing priority documents


R. 55  Examination on filing
R. 56  Missing parts of the description or  missing drawings
R. 57  Examination as to formal  requirements
R. 58  Correction of deficiencies in the  application documents

Table of contents
R. 59  Deficiencies in claiming priority
R. 60  Subsequent designation of the  inventor

R. 61  Content of the European search  report
R. 62  Extended European search report
R. 62a  Applications containing a plurality  of independent claims
R. 63  Incomplete search
R. 64  European search report where the  invention lacks unity
R. 65  Transmittal of the European  search report
R. 66  Definitive content of the abstract

R. 67  Technical preparations for  publication
R. 68  Form of the publication of  European patent applications and  European search reports
R. 69  Information about publication
R. 70  Request for examination

Table of contents

R. 70a  Response to the extended  European search report
R. 70b  Request for a copy of search  results
R. 71  Examination procedure
R. 71a  Conclusion of the grant procedure
R. 72  Grant of the European patent to  different applicants

R. 73  Content and form of the  specification
R. 74  Certificate for a European patent


R. 75  Surrender or lapse of the patent
R. 76  Form and content of the opposition
R. 77  Rejection of the opposition as  inadmissible
R. 78  Procedure where the proprietor of  the patent is not entitled
R. 79  Preparation of the examination of  the opposition

Table of contents
R. 80  Amendment of the European  patent
R. 81  Examination of opposition
R. 82  Maintenance of the European  patent in amended form
R. 83  Request for documents
R. 84  Continuation of the opposition  proceedings by the European  Patent Office of its own motion
R. 85  Transfer of the European patent
R. 86  Documents in opposition  proceedings
R. 87  Content and form of the new specification of the European patent
R. 88  Costs
R. 89  Intervention of the assumed  infringer

R. 90  Subject of proceedings
R. 91  Responsibility for proceedings
R. 92  Requirements of the request
R. 93  Precedence of opposition  proceedings
R. 94  Rejection of the request as  inadmissible
R. 95  Decision on the request

Table of contents
R. 96  Content and form of the amended  European patent specification


R. 97  Appeal against apportionment and  fixing of costs
R. 98  Surrender or lapse of the patent
R. 99  Content of the notice of appeal and  the statement of grounds
R. 100  Examination of appeals
R. 101  Rejection of the appeal as  inadmissible
R. 102  Form of decision of the Board of  Appeal
R. 103  Reimbursement of appeal fees

R. 104  Further fundamental procedural  defects
R. 105  Criminal acts
R. 106  Obligation to raise objections
R. 107  Contents of the petition for review
R. 108  Examination of the petition

Table of contents
R. 109  Procedure in dealing with petitions  for review
R. 110  Reimbursement of the fee for  petitions for review


R. 111  Form of decisions
R. 112  Noting of loss of rights
R. 113  Signature, name, seal

R. 114  Observations by third parties

R. 115  Summons to oral proceedings
R. 116  Preparation of oral proceedings
R. 117  Decision on taking of evidence
R. 118  Summons to give evidence before  the European Patent Office
R. 119  Examination of evidence before  the European Patent Office
R. 120  Hearing by a competent national  court

Table of contents
R. 121  Commissioning of experts
R. 122  Costs of taking of evidence
R. 123  Conservation of evidence
R. 124  Minutes of oral proceedings and of  taking of evidence

R. 125  General provisions
R. 126  Notification by postal services
R. 127  Notification by means of electronic  communication
R. 128  Notification by delivery by hand
R. 129  Public notification
R. 130  Notification to representatives

R. 131  Calculation of periods
R. 132  Periods specified by the European  Patent Office
R. 133  Late receipt of documents
R. 134  Extension of periods
R. 135  Further processing
R. 136  Re-establishment of rights

Table of contents

R. 137  Amendment of the European  patent application
R. 138  Different claims, description and  drawings for different States
R. 139  Correction of errors in documents  filed with the European Patent  Office
R. 140  Correction of errors in decisions

R. 141  Information on prior art

R. 142  Interruption of proceedings

R. 143  Entries in the European Patent  Register
R. 144  Parts of the file excluded from  inspection
R. 145  Procedures for the inspection of  files
R. 146  Communication of information  contained in the files
R. 147  Constitution, maintenance and  preservation of files

Table of contents

R. 148  Communications between the  European Patent Office and the  authorities of the Contracting  States
R. 149  Inspection of files by or via courts  or authorities of the Contracting  States
R. 150  Procedure for letters rogatory

R. 151  Appointment of a common  representative
R. 152  Authorisations
R. 153  Attorney-client evidentiary privilege
R. 154  Amendment of the list of  professional representatives

R. 155  Filing and transmission of the  request for conversion
R. 156  Information to the public in the  event of conversion

R. 157  The European Patent Office as a  receiving Office

Table of contents
R. 158  The European Patent Office as an  International Searching Authority  or International Preliminary  Examining Authority
R. 159  The European Patent Office as a  designated or elected Office –  Requirements for entry into the  European phase
R. 160  Consequences of non-fulfilment of  certain requirements
R. 161  Amendment of the application
R. 162  Claims incurring fees
R. 163  Examination of certain formal  requirements by the European  Patent Office
R. 164  Unity of invention and further  searches
R. 165  The Euro-PCT application as  conflicting application under  Article 54, paragraph 3

Implementing Regulations


Rule 1   Written proceedings
In written proceedings before the European  Patent Office, the requirement to use the written  form shall be satisfied if the content of the  documents can be reproduced in a legible form  on paper.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 21   Filing of and formal requirements for  documents
(1)2 In proceedings before the European Patent Office, documents may be filed by delivery  by hand, by postal services or by means of  electronic communication. The President of the  European Patent Office shall lay down the  details and conditions and, where appropriate,  any special formal or technical requirements for  the filing of documents. In particular, he may  specify that confirmation must be supplied. If  such confirmation is not supplied in due time, the European patent application shall be  refused; documents filed subsequently shall be  deemed not to have been received.
See decision of the President of the EPO of  20.02.2019 concerning the filing of patent applications  and other documents by facsimile (OJ EPO  2019, A18).
See decision of the President of the EPO of  13.06.2019 concerning the EPO Online Filing software  to be used for the electronic filing of documents  (OJ EPO 2019, A64).
See decisions of the President of the EPO  concerning the electronic filing of documents and  priority documents (OJ EPO 2018, A45, and OJ EPO  2018, A93) and notices from the EPO (OJ EPO  2018, A46, and OJ EPO 2018, A94).
See decision of the President of the EPO of  11.03.2015 concerning the pilot project to introduce  new means of electronic communication in EPO  proceedings (OJ EPO 2015, A28).
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).

Implementing Regulations
(2)  Where the Convention provides that a  document must be signed, the authenticity of  the document may be confirmed by handwritten  signature or other appropriate means the use of  which has been permitted by the President of  the European Patent Office. A document  authenticated by such other means shall be  deemed to meet the legal requirements of signature in the same way as a document bearing  a handwritten signature which has been filed in  paper form.
Rule 33   Language in written proceedings
(1)  In written proceedings before the European Patent Office, any party may use any official language of the European Patent Office.  The translation referred to in Article 14, paragraph 4, may be filed in any official language of  the European Patent Office.
(2)  Amendments to a European patent application or European patent shall be filed in the  language of the proceedings.
(3)  Documentary evidence and, in particular,  publications may be filed in any language. The  European Patent Office may, however, require  that a translation in one of its official languages  be filed, within a period to be specified. If a  required translation is not filed in due time, the  European Patent Office may disregard the  document in question.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 4   Language in oral proceedings
(1)  Any party to oral proceedings before the  European Patent Office may use an official language of the European Patent Office other than  the language of the proceedings, if such party  gives notice to the European Patent Office at  least one month before the date of such oral  proceedings or provides for interpretation into  the language of the proceedings. Any party may  use an official language of a Contracting State,  if he provides for interpretation into the language of the proceedings. The European Patent Office may permit derogations from these  provisions.
(2)  In the course of oral proceedings, employees of the European Patent Office may use an  official language of the European Patent Office  other than the language of the proceedings.
(3)  Where evidence is taken, any party, witness or expert to be heard who is unable to  express himself adequately in an official  language of the European Patent Office or of a Contracting State may use another language.  Where evidence is taken upon request of a  party, parties, witnesses or experts expressing  themselves in a language other than an official  language of the European Patent Office shall  be heard only if that party provides for interpretation into the language of the proceedings.  The European Patent Office may, however,  permit interpretation into one of its other official  languages.
(4)  If the parties and the European Patent  Office agree, any language may be used.

Implementing Regulations
(5)  The European Patent Office shall, if necessary, provide at its own expense interpretation into the language of the proceedings, or,  where appropriate, into its other official languages, unless such interpretation is the  responsibility of one of the parties.
(6)  Statements by employees of the European  Patent Office, parties, witnesses or experts,  made in an official language of the European  Patent Office, shall be entered in the minutes in  that language. Statements made in any other  language shall be entered in the official language into which they are translated. Amendments to a European patent application or  European patent shall be entered in the minutes in the language of the proceedings.
Rule 5   Certification of translations
Where the translation of a document is  required, the European Patent Office may  require that a certificate that the translation  corresponds to the original text be filed within a  period to be specified. If the certificate is not  filed in due time, such document shall be  deemed not to have been filed, unless  otherwise provided.
Rule 64   Filing of translations and reduction of fees
(1)  A translation under Article 14, paragraph 2, shall be filed within two months of filing  the European patent application.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  A translation  under  Article 14,  paragraph 4, shall be filed within one month of filing  the document. This shall also apply to requests  under Article 105a. Where the document is a  notice of opposition or appeal, or a statement of  grounds of appeal, or a petition for review, the  translation may be filed within the period for filing such a notice or statement or petition, if that  period expires later.
(3)5 Where a person referred to in Article 14,  paragraph 4, files a European patent application or a request for examination in a language  admitted in that provision, the filing fee or  examination fee shall be reduced in accordance  with the Rules relating to Fees.
(4)  The reduction referred to in paragraph 3 shall be available for:
(a)  small and medium-sized enterprises;
(b)  natural persons; or
(c)  non-profit organisations, universities or  public research organisations.
(5)  For the purposes of paragraph 4(a), Commission  recommendation  2003/361/EC  of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of  micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as  published in the Official Journal of the  European Union L 124, p. 36 of 20 May 2003  shall apply.

Implementing Regulations
(6)  An applicant wishing to benefit from the  fee reduction referred to in paragraph 3 shall  declare himself to be an entity or a natural  person within the meaning of paragraph 4. In case of reasonable doubt as to the veracity of  such declaration, the Office may require  evidence.
(7)  In case of multiple applicants, each  applicant shall be an entity or a natural person  within the meaning of paragraph 4.
Rule 7   Legal authenticity of the translation of the  European patent application
Unless evidence is provided to the contrary, the  European Patent Office shall assume, for the  purpose of determining whether the subjectmatter of the European patent application or  European patent extends beyond the content of  the application as filed, that the translation filed  under Article 14, paragraph 2, or Rule 40, paragraph 3, is in conformity with the original text of  the application.

Section 1   General matters
Rule 8   Patent classification
The European Patent Office shall use the  classification referred to in Article 1 of the  Strasbourg  Agreement  concerning  the  International Patent Classification of 24 March  1971, hereinafter referred to as the international  classification.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 9   Administrative structure of the European  Patent Office
(1)6 The European Patent Office shall be  divided  administratively  into  DirectoratesGeneral, to which the departments specified in  Article 15(a) to (e), and the services set up to  deal with legal matters and the internal  administration of the Office, shall be assigned.
(2)  Each Directorate-General shall be directed  by a Vice-President. The assignment of a VicePresident to a Directorate-General shall be  decided by the Administrative Council, after the  President of the European Patent Office has  been consulted.
Rule 10   Responsibility of the Receiving Section and  the Examining Division
(1)  The Receiving Section shall be responsible for the examination on filing and the examination as to formal requirements of a European  patent application up to the time when the  Examining Division becomes responsible for  the examination of the European patent  application under Article 94, paragraph 1.
(2)  Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4, the Examining Division shall be responsible for the examination of a European patent application under  Article 94, paragraph 1, from the time when a  request for examination is filed.
(3)  If a request for examination is filed before  the European search report has been transmitted to the applicant, the Examining Division  shall, subject to paragraph 4, be responsible  from the time when the European Patent Office  receives the indication under Rule 70, paragraph 2.

Implementing Regulations
(4)  If a request for examination is filed before  the European search report has been transmitted to the applicant, and if the applicant has  waived the right under Rule 70, paragraph 2, the Examining Division shall be responsible  from the time when the search report is transmitted to the applicant.
Rule 117   Allocation of duties to the departments of  first instance
(1)  Technically qualified examiners acting as  members of Search, Examining or Opposition  Divisions shall be assigned to Directorates. The  President of the European Patent Office shall  allocate duties to these Directorates by reference to the international classification.
(2)8 The President of the European Patent  Office may allocate further duties to the  Receiving Section, the Search, Examining and  Opposition Divisions, and the Legal Division, in  addition to the responsibilities vested in them  under the Convention.
(3)9 The President of the European Patent  Office may entrust to employees who are not  technically or legally qualified examiners the  execution of duties falling to the Search, Examining or Opposition Divisions and involving no  technical or legal difficulties.

Implementing Regulations
Section 2   Organisation of the Boards of Appeal and  the Enlarged Board of Appeal
Rule 1210
(deleted)
Rule 12a11   Organisation and management of the  Boards of Appeal Unit and President of the  Boards of Appeal
(1)  The Boards of Appeal and the Enlarged  Board of Appeal, including their registries and  support services, shall be organised as a separate unit (the "Boards of Appeal Unit") and be  directed by the President of the Boards of Appeal. The Chairman of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal shall act as President of the Boards of  Appeal. The President of the Boards of Appeal  shall be appointed by the Administrative Council on a joint proposal made by the Committee  established under Rule 12c, paragraph 1, and  the President of the European Patent Office. If  the President of the Boards of Appeal is absent  or indisposed, one of the members of the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall take his place in  accordance with the procedure laid down by the  Administrative Council.

Implementing Regulations
(2)12 The President of the Boards of Appeal  shall manage the Boards of Appeal Unit and, to  this end, have the functions and powers delegated to him by the President of the European  Patent Office. In exercising the delegated functions and powers, the President of the Boards  of Appeal shall be responsible solely to the  Administrative Council and shall be subject to  its hierarchical and disciplinary authority.
(3)  Without prejudice to Article 10, paragraph  2(d), and Article 46, the President of the Boards  of Appeal shall prepare a substantiated budget  request for the Boards of Appeal Unit. This request shall be examined and discussed with the  relevant departments of the European Patent  Office, and be presented by the President of the  Boards of Appeal to the Committee established  under Rule 12c, paragraph 1, for opinion, before being forwarded to the President of the European Patent Office for consideration for the  yearly draft budget. The President of the European Patent Office shall provide the President  of the Boards of Appeal with the necessary resources, as set out in the adopted budget.
(4)  The President of the European Patent Office shall make the services mentioned in  Rule 9, paragraph 1, available to the President  of the Boards of Appeal as far as necessary  and within the limits of the adopted budget.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 12b13   Presidium of the Boards of Appeal and  business distribution scheme for the Boards  of Appeal
(1)14 The autonomous authority within the  Boards of Appeal Unit (the "Presidium of the  Boards of Appeal") shall consist of the President of the Boards of Appeal, who shall act as  chairman, and twelve members of the Boards of  Appeal, six being Chairmen and six being other  members.
(2)  All members of the Presidium shall be  elected by the Chairmen and members of the  Boards of Appeal for two working years. If the  full composition of the Presidium cannot be  reached, the vacancies shall be filled by designating the most senior Chairmen and members.
(3)  The Presidium shall:
(a)  adopt the Rules of Procedure for the election and designation of its members;
(b)  adopt, without prejudice to regulations  adopted in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 2(c), and Article 33, paragraph 2(b), a  Code of Conduct for the members and Chairmen of the Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged Board of Appeal, which shall be subject  to the approval of the Administrative Council;
(c)  advise the President of the Boards of Appeal on proposals for amendments to the Rules  of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal and of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal;

Implementing Regulations
(d)  advise the President of the Boards of Appeal on matters concerning the functioning of  the Boards of Appeal Unit in general.
(4)15, 16 Before the beginning of each working  year, the Presidium, extended to include all  Chairmen, shall allocate duties to the Boards of  Appeal. In the same composition, it shall decide  on conflicts regarding the allocation of duties  between two or more Boards of Appeal. The extended Presidium shall designate the regular  and alternate members of the various Boards of  Appeal. Any member of a Board of Appeal may  be designated as a member of more than one  Board of Appeal. These measures may, where  necessary, be amended during the course of  the working year in question.
(5)  The Presidium may only take a decision if  at least five of its members are present; these  must include the President of the Boards of  Appeal or his deputy, and the Chairmen of two  Boards of Appeal. Where the tasks mentioned  in paragraph 4 are concerned, nine members  must be present, including the President of the  Boards of Appeal or his deputy, and the  Chairmen of three Boards of Appeal. Decisions  shall be taken by a majority vote; in the event of  parity of votes, the Chairman or his deputy shall  have the casting vote. Abstentions shall not be  considered as votes.
(6)  The Administrative Council may allocate  duties under Article 134a, paragraph 1(c), to the Boards of Appeal.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 12c17   Boards of Appeal Committee and procedure  for adoption of the Rules of Procedure of  the Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal
(1)  The Administrative Council shall set up a  committee (the "Boards of Appeal Committee")  to advise it and the President of the Boards of  Appeal on the Boards of Appeal Unit in general  and to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the  Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal. The Committee shall be composed of  six members appointed by the Administrative  Council, three from among the delegations of  the Contracting States within the meaning of Article 26, and three from among serving or former judges of international or European courts  or of national courts of the Contracting States.  The President of the European Patent Office  and the President of the Boards of Appeal shall  have the right to attend the Committee's meetings. Further details, in particular as to the  Committee's composition, alternate members,  working arrangements and functions in advising  the Boards of Appeal Unit, shall be determined  by the Administrative Council in the decision  setting up the Committee.

Implementing Regulations
(2)18 On a proposal from the President of the  Boards of Appeal and after the President of the  European Patent Office has been given the opportunity to comment, the Committee set up  under paragraph 1 shall adopt the Rules of  Procedure of the Boards of Appeal and of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal.
Rule 12d19   Appointment and re-appointment of the  members, including the Chairmen, of the  Boards of Appeal and of the Enlarged Board  of Appeal
(1)  The Chairman of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal shall, on his appointment, also be appointed as a legally qualified member of the  Boards of Appeal.
(2)20 Upon delegation from the President of the  European Patent Office, the President of the  Boards of Appeal shall exercise the right to  propose the members, including the Chairmen,  of the Boards of Appeal and the members of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal for appointment  by the Administrative Council, and the right to  be  consulted  on  their  re-appointment  (Article 11, paragraph 3) and on the appointment and re-appointment of external legally  qualified members (Article 11, paragraph 5).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  The President of the Boards of Appeal  shall exercise the right under paragraph 2 to be  consulted on re-appointments by submitting a  reasoned opinion, including an evaluation of the  member's or Chairman's performance, to the  Administrative Council. The criteria for evaluating performance shall be set by the President of  the Boards of Appeal in consultation with the  Committee established under Rule 12c, paragraph 1. Subject to a positive opinion and performance evaluation and the number of posts  under Article 11, paragraph 3, available in the  adopted budget for the Boards of Appeal Unit,  the members, including the Chairmen, of the  Boards of Appeal and the members of the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall be re-appointed at  the end of their five-year term under Article 23,  paragraph 1.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 1321, 22, 23   Business distribution scheme for the  Enlarged Board of Appeal
Before the beginning of each working year, the  members of the Enlarged Board of Appeal appointed under Article 11, paragraph 3, shall  designate the regular and alternate members of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal in proceedings  under Article 22, paragraph 1(a) and (b), and  the regular and alternate members in proceedings under Article 22, paragraph 1(c). Decisions may only be taken if at least five members are  present, including the Chairman of the Enlarged  Board of Appeal or his deputy; in the event of  parity of votes, the Chairman or his deputy shall  have the casting vote. Abstentions shall not be  considered as votes.

Implementing Regulations


Rule 1424   Stay of proceedings
(1)  If a third party provides evidence that he  has instituted proceedings against the applicant  seeking a decision within the meaning of Article 61, paragraph 1, the proceedings for grant  shall be stayed unless the third party communicates to the European Patent Office in writing  his consent to the continuation of such proceedings. Such consent shall be irrevocable. However, proceedings for grant shall not be stayed  before the publication of the European patent  application.
(2)  Where evidence is provided that a final  decision within the meaning of Article 61, paragraph 1, has been taken, the European Patent  Office shall inform the applicant and any other  party that the proceedings for grant shall be  resumed as from the date stated in the  communication, unless a new European patent  application under Article 61, paragraph 1(b),  has been filed for all the designated Contracting  States. If the decision is in favour of the third  party, the proceedings may not be resumed  earlier than three months after the decision has  become final, unless the third party requests  the resumption.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Upon staying the proceedings for grant, or  thereafter, the European Patent Office may set  a date on which it intends to resume the proceedings for grant, regardless of the stage  reached in the national proceedings instituted  under paragraph 1. It shall communicate this  date to the third party, the applicant and any  other party. If no evidence has been provided  by that date that a final decision has been  taken, the European Patent Office may resume  proceedings.
(4)  All periods, other than those for the payment of renewal fees, running at the date of the  stay of proceedings shall be interrupted by such  stay. The time which has not yet elapsed shall  begin to run from the date on which proceedings are resumed. However, the time still to run  after such resumption shall not be less than two  months.
Rule 1525   Limitation on withdrawals
From the date on which a third party provides  evidence that he has instituted national proceedings under Rule 14, paragraph 1, and up to the date on which the proceedings for grant are  resumed, neither the European patent application nor the designation of any Contracting  State may be withdrawn.
Rule 16   Procedure under Article 61, paragraph 1
(1)  A person entitled to the grant of a European patent may only avail himself of the remedies under Article 61, paragraph 1, if:
(a)  he does so no later than three months  after the decision recognising his entitlement  has become final, and

Implementing Regulations
(b)  the European patent has not yet been  granted.
(2)  Such remedies shall only apply in respect  of Contracting States designated in the European patent application in which the decision  has been taken or recognised or must be recognised on the basis of the Protocol on Recognition.
Rule 1726   Filing of a new European patent application  by the entitled person
(1)  Where the person adjudged by a final  decision to be entitled to the grant of the European patent files a new European patent application under Article 61, paragraph 1(b), the  original application shall be deemed to be withdrawn on the date of filing the new application  for the Contracting States designated therein in  which the decision has been taken or recognised or must be recognised on the basis of the  Protocol on Recognition.
(2)  The filing fee and search fee shall be paid  within one month of filing the new application. If  the filing fee or search fee is not paid in due time, the application shall be deemed to be  withdrawn.
(3)27 The designation fee shall be paid within  six months of the date on which the European  Patent Bulletin mentions the publication of the  European search report drawn up in respect of  the new application. Rule 39, paragraphs 2 and  3, shall apply.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 1828   Partial transfer of the right to the European  patent
(1)  If a final decision determines that a third  party is entitled to the grant of a European patent in respect of only part of the subject-matter  disclosed in the original European patent application, Article 61 and Rules 16 and 17 shall  apply to such part.
(2)  Where appropriate, the original European  patent application shall contain, for the designated Contracting States in which the decision  was taken or recognised or must be recognised on the basis of the Protocol on Recognition,  claims, a description and drawings which are  different from those for the other designated  Contracting States.

Rule 19   Designation of the inventor
(1)  The request for grant of a European patent shall contain the designation of the inventor.  However, if the applicant is not the inventor or  is not the sole inventor, the designation shall be  filed in a separate document. The designation  shall state the family name, given names and  full address of the inventor, contain the statement referred to in Article 81 and bear the signature of the applicant or his representative.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall not verify the accuracy of the designation of the inventor.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  If the applicant is not the inventor or is not  the sole inventor, the European Patent Office  shall communicate to the designated inventor  the information in the document designating  him and the following data:
(a)  the number of the European patent application;
(b)  the date of filing of the European patent  application and, if priority has been claimed, the  date, State and file number of the previous  application;
(c)  the name of the applicant;
(d)  the title of the invention;
(e)  the Contracting States designated.
(4)  The applicant and the inventor may invoke  neither the omission of the communication  under paragraph 3 nor any errors contained  therein.
Rule 20   Publication of the mention of the inventor
(1)  The designated inventor shall be mentioned in the published European patent application and the European patent specification,  unless he informs the European Patent Office in  writing that he has waived his right to be thus  mentioned.
(2)  Paragraph 1 shall apply where a third  party files with the European Patent Office a  final decision determining that the applicant for  or proprietor of a European patent is required to  designate him as an inventor.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 2129   Rectification of the designation of an  inventor
(1)  An incorrect designation of an inventor  shall be rectified upon request and only with the  consent of the wrongly designated person and,  where such a request is filed by a third party,  the consent of the applicant for or proprietor of  the patent. Rule 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2)  Where an incorrect designation of the  inventor has been recorded in the European  Patent Register or published in the European  Patent Bulletin, its rectification or cancellation  shall also be recorded or published therein.

Rule 2230   Registration of transfers
(1)  The transfer of a European patent application shall be recorded in the European Patent  Register at the request of an interested party,  upon production of documents providing evidence of such transfer.
(2)  The request shall not be deemed to have  been filed until an administrative fee has been  paid. It may be rejected only if paragraph 1 has  not been complied with.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  A transfer shall have effect vis-à-vis the  European Patent Office only at the date when  and to the extent that the documents referred to  in paragraph 1 have been produced.
Rule 2331   Registration of licences and other rights
(1)  Rule 22, paragraphs 1 and 2, shall apply  mutatis mutandis to the registration of the grant or transfer of a licence, the establishment or  transfer of a right in rem in respect of a European patent application and any legal means of  execution affecting such an application.
(2)  A registration under paragraph 1 shall be  cancelled upon request, supported by documents  providing evidence that the right has lapsed, or by  the written consent of the proprietor of the right to  the cancellation of the registration. Rule 22, paragraph 2, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Rule 2432   Special entries for licence registrations
A licence in respect of a European patent application shall be recorded
(a)  as an exclusive licence if the applicant and  the licensee so request;
(b)  as a sub-licence where it is granted by a  licensee whose licence is recorded in the European Patent Register.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 2533   Certificate of exhibition
Within four months of filing the European patent application, the applicant shall file the certificate  referred to in Article 55, paragraph 2, which:
(a)  is issued at the exhibition by the authority  responsible for the protection of industrial property at that exhibition;
(b)  states that the invention was in fact displayed there;
(c)  states the opening date of the exhibition  and, where the invention was disclosed later  than on that date, the date on which the invention was first disclosed; and
(d)  is accompanied by an identification of the  invention,  duly  authenticated  by  the  above-mentioned authority.

Rule 2634   General and definitions
(1)  For European patent applications and patents concerning biotechnological inventions, the  relevant provisions of the Convention shall be  applied and interpreted in accordance with the  provisions of this Chapter. Directive 98/44/EC  of 6 July 199835 on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions shall be used as a  supplementary means of interpretation.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  "Biotechnological inventions" are inventions which concern a product consisting of or  containing biological material or a process by  means of which biological material is produced,  processed or used.
(3)  "Biological material" means any material  containing genetic information and capable of  reproducing itself or being reproduced in a biological system.
(4)  "Plant variety" means any plant grouping  within a single botanical taxon of the lowest  known rank, which grouping, irrespective of  whether the conditions for the grant of a plant  variety right are fully met, can be:
(a)  defined by the expression of the characteristics that results from a given genotype or  combination of genotypes,
(b)  distinguished from any other plant grouping by the expression of at least one of the said  characteristics, and
(c)  considered as a unit with regard to its suitability for being propagated unchanged.
(5)  A process for the production of plants or  animals is essentially biological if it consists  entirely of natural phenomena such as crossing  or selection.
(6)  "Microbiological  process"  means  any  process involving or performed upon or resulting in microbiological material.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 27   Patentable biotechnological inventions
Biotechnological inventions shall also be patentable if they concern:
(a)  biological material which is isolated from  its natural environment or produced by means  of a technical process even if it previously  occurred in nature;
(b)36 without prejudice to Rule 28, paragraph 2, plants or animals if the technical feasibility of  the invention is not confined to a particular plant  or animal variety;
(c)37 a microbiological or other technical process, or a product obtained by means of such a  process other than a plant or animal variety.
Rule 2838   Exceptions to patentability
(1)  Under Article 53(a), European patents shall not be granted in respect of biotechnological inventions which, in particular, concern the  following:
(a)  processes for cloning human beings;
(b)  processes for modifying the germ line  genetic identity of human beings;
See opinion of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 3/19  (Annex I).

Implementing Regulations
(c)39 uses of human embryos for industrial or  commercial purposes;
(d)  processes for modifying the genetic identity of animals which are likely to cause them  suffering without any substantial medical benefit  to man or animal, and also animals resulting  from such processes.
(2)40 Under Article 53(b), European patents  shall not be granted in respect of plants or animals exclusively obtained by means of an essentially biological process.
Rule 29   The human body and its elements
(1)  The human body, at the various stages of  its formation and development, and the simple  discovery of one of its elements, including the  sequence or partial sequence of a gene, cannot  constitute patentable inventions.
(2)  An element isolated from the human body  or otherwise produced by means of a technical  process, including the sequence or partial  sequence of a gene, may constitute a patentable invention, even if the structure of that  element is identical to that of a natural element.
(3)  The industrial application of a sequence or  a partial sequence of a gene must be disclosed  in the patent application.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 3041   Requirements of European patent  applications relating to nucleotide and  amino acid sequences
(1)  If nucleotide or amino acid sequences are  disclosed in the European patent application,  the description shall contain a sequence listing  conforming to the rules laid down by the President of the European Patent Office for the  standardised representation of nucleotide and  amino acid sequences.
(2)  A sequence listing filed after the date of filing shall not form part of the description.
(3)  Where the applicant has not filed a  sequence listing complying with the requirements under paragraph 1 at the date of filing,  the European Patent Office shall invite the  applicant to furnish such a sequence listing and  pay the late furnishing fee. If the applicant does  not furnish the required sequence listing and  pay the required late furnishing fee within a  period of two months after such an invitation,  the application shall be refused.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 3142, 43   Deposit of biological material
(1)  If an invention involves the use of or concerns biological material which is not available  to the public and which cannot be described in  the European patent application in such a manner as to enable the invention to be carried out  by a person skilled in the art, the invention shall  only be regarded as being disclosed as prescribed in Article 83 if:
(a)  a sample of the biological material has  been deposited with a recognised depositary  institution on the same terms as those laid  down in the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure  of 28 April 1977 not later than the date of filing  of the application;
(b)  the application as filed gives such relevant  information as is available to the applicant on  the characteristics of the biological material;
(c)  the depositary institution and the accession number of the deposited biological material  are stated in the application, and
(d)  where the biological material has been  deposited by a person other than the applicant,  the name and address of the depositor are  stated in the application and a document is  submitted to the European Patent Office providing evidence that the depositor has authorised  the applicant to refer to the deposited biological  material in the application and has given his  unreserved and irrevocable consent to the  deposited material being made available to the  public in accordance with Rule 33.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  The information referred to in paragraph 1(c) and (d) may be submitted
(a)  within sixteen months after the date of filing of the application or, if priority has been  claimed, after the priority date, this period being  deemed to have been observed if the information is communicated before completion of the  technical preparations for publication of the  European patent application;
(b)  up to the date of submission of a request  under Article 93, paragraph 1(b);
(c)  within one month after the European Patent Office has communicated to the applicant  that the right to inspect the files under Article 128, paragraph 2, exists.
The ruling period shall be the one which is the  first to expire. The communication of this information shall be considered as constituting the  unreserved and irrevocable consent of the  applicant to the deposited biological material  being made available to the public in accordance with Rule 33.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 3244, 45   Expert solution
(1)  Until completion of the technical preparations for publication of the European patent  application, the applicant may inform the European Patent Office that,
(a)  until the publication of the mention of the  grant of the European patent or, where applicable,
(b)  for twenty years from the date of filing, if  the application is refused or withdrawn or  deemed to be withdrawn,
the availability referred to in Rule 33 shall be  effected only by the issue of a sample to an  independent  expert  nominated  by  the  requester.
(2)  Any natural person may be nominated as  an expert, provided that he complies with the  requirements and obligations laid down by the  President of the European Patent Office.
The nomination shall be accompanied by a declaration from the expert that he undertakes to  comply with the aforementioned requirements  and obligations and that he knows of no  circumstances which might give rise to justified  doubts as to his independence or which might  conflict in any other way with his function as  expert.
See notice from the EPO of 07.07.2010 concerning  inventions which involve the use of or concern  biological material (OJ EPO 2010, 498) and notice  from the EPO of 10.07.2017 concerning amended  Rules 32 and 33 EPC (OJ EPO 2017, A61).

Implementing Regulations
The nomination shall also be accompanied by a  declaration from the expert vis-à-vis the applicant  in  which  he  enters  into  the  undertaking given under Rule 33 until either the  date on which the patent expires in all the  designated States or, where the application is  refused, withdrawn or deemed to be withdrawn,  the date referred to in paragraph 1(b), the  requester being regarded as a third party.
Rule 3346   Availability of biological material
(1)  Biological material deposited in accordance with Rule 31 shall be available upon  request to any person from the date of publication of the European patent application and to  any person having the right to inspect the files  under Article 128, paragraph 2, prior to that  date. Subject to Rule 32, such availability shall  be effected by the issue of a sample of the  biological material to the person making the  request  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "the  requester").
(2)  Said issue shall be made only if the  requester has undertaken vis-à-vis the applicant for or proprietor of the patent not to make  the biological material or any biological material  derived therefrom available to any third party  and to use that material for experimental  purposes only, until such time as the patent  application is refused or withdrawn or deemed  to be withdrawn, or before the European patent  has expired in all the designated States, unless  the applicant for or proprietor of the patent  expressly waives such an undertaking.

Implementing Regulations
The undertaking to use the biological material  for experimental purposes only shall not apply  in so far as the requester is using that material  under a compulsory licence. The term "compulsory licence" shall be construed as including ex  officio licences and the right to use patented  inventions in the public interest.
(3)  For the purposes of paragraph 2, derived  biological material shall mean any material  which still exhibits those characteristics of the  deposited material which are essential to carrying out the invention. The undertaking under  paragraph 2 shall not impede any deposit of  derived biological material necessary for the  purpose of patent procedure.
(4)  The request referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the European Patent  Office on a form recognised by that Office. The  European Patent Office shall certify on the form  that a European patent application referring to  the deposit of the biological material has been  filed, and that the requester or the expert nominated by him under Rule 32 is entitled to the  issue of a sample of that material. After grant of  the European patent, the request shall also be  submitted to the European Patent Office.
(5)  The European Patent Office shall transmit  a copy of the request, with the certification provided for in paragraph 4, to the depositary institution and to the applicant for or the proprietor  of the patent.
(6)47 The European Patent Office shall publish  in its Official Journal the list of depositary institutions recognised for the purpose of Rules 31, 33 and 34.
See notice from the EPO of 10.07.2017 concerning  amended Rules 32 and 33 EPC (OJ EPO 2017, A61).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 3448   New deposit of biological material
If biological material deposited in accordance  with Rule 31 ceases to be available from the  recognised depositary institution, an interruption  in availability shall be deemed not to have  occurred if a new deposit of that material is  made with a recognised depositary institution  on the same terms as those laid down in the  Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the  Purposes of Patent Procedure of 28 April 1977,  and if a copy of the receipt of the new deposit  issued by the depositary institution is forwarded  to the European Patent Office within four  months of the date of the new deposit, stating  the number of the European patent application  or of the European patent.

Implementing Regulations


Rule 3549   General provisions
(1)  European patent applications may be filed  in writing with the European Patent Office in  Munich, The Hague or Berlin, or the authorities  referred to in Article 75, paragraph 1(b).
(2)  The authority with which the European  patent application is filed shall mark the documents making up the application with the date  of their receipt, and issue without delay a  receipt to the applicant including at least the  application number and the nature, number and  date of receipt of the documents.
See decision of the President of the EPO of  03.01.2017 designating the EPO's filing offices  (OJ EPO 2017, A11) and notice from the EPO of  03.01.2017 concerning the availability of the EPO filing  offices (OJ EPO 2017, A12).
See decisions of the President of the EPO  concerning the electronic filing of documents and  priority documents (OJ EPO 2018, A45, and OJ EPO  2018, A93) and notices from the EPO (OJ EPO  2018, A46, and OJ EPO 2018, A94).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  If the European patent application is filed  with an authority referred to in Article 75, paragraph 1(b), such authority shall without delay  inform the European Patent Office of the receipt  of the application, and, in particular, of the  nature and date of receipt of the documents,  the application number and any priority date  claimed.
(4)  Upon receipt of a European patent application forwarded by the central industrial property office of a Contracting State, the European  Patent Office shall inform the applicant accordingly, indicating the date of its receipt.
Rule 3650   European divisional applications
(1)51, 52 The applicant may file a divisional application relating to any pending earlier  European patent application.

Implementing Regulations
(2)53 A divisional application shall be filed in the  language of the proceedings for the earlier  application. If the latter was not in an official  language of the European Patent Office, the  divisional application may be filed in the  language of the earlier application; a translation  into the language of the proceedings for the  earlier application shall then be filed within two  months of the filing of the divisional application.  The divisional application shall be filed with the  European Patent Office in Munich, The Hague  or Berlin.
(3)  The filing fee and search fee shall be paid  within one month of filing the divisional application. If the filing fee or search fee is not paid in  due time, the application shall be deemed to be  withdrawn.
(4)54 The designation fee shall be paid within  six months of the date on which the European  Patent Bulletin mentions the publication of the  European search report drawn up in respect of  the  divisional  application.  Rule 39,  paragraphs 2 and 3, shall apply.
Rule 37   Forwarding of European patent applications
(1)  The central industrial property office of a  Contracting State shall forward European patent applications to the European Patent Office  in the shortest time compatible with its national  law relating to the secrecy of inventions in the  interests of the State, and shall take all appropriate steps to ensure such forwarding within:

Implementing Regulations
(a)  six weeks of filing, where the subject of the  application is evidently not liable to secrecy  under the national law; or
(b)  four months of filing or, if priority has been  claimed, fourteen months of the date of priority,  where the application requires further examination as to its liability to secrecy.
(2)  A  European  patent  application  not  received by the European Patent Office within  fourteen months of filing or, if priority has been  claimed, of the date of priority, shall be deemed  to be withdrawn. Any fees paid in respect of this  application shall be refunded.
Rule 3855   Filing fee and search fee
(1)56 The filing fee and search fee shall be paid  within one month of filing the European patent  application.
(2)  The Rules relating to Fees may provide for  an additional fee as part of the filing fee if the  application comprises more than 35 pages.
(3)  The additional fee referred to in paragraph 2 shall be paid within one month of filing  the European patent application or one month  of filing the first set of claims or one month of filing the certified copy referred to in Rule 40,  paragraph 3, whichever period expires last.

Implementing Regulations
(4)57 The Rules relating to Fees may provide for  an additional fee as part of the filing fee in the  case of a divisional application filed in respect  of any earlier application which is itself a  divisional application.
Rule 3958   Designation fees
(1)  The designation fee shall be paid within  six months of the date on which the European  Patent Bulletin mentions the publication of the  European search report.
(2)59 Where the designation fee is not paid in  due time or the designations of all the Contracting States are withdrawn, the European patent  application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
(3)  Without prejudice to Rule 37, paragraph 2, second sentence, the designation fee shall not be refunded.
Rule 4060   Date of filing
(1)  The date of filing of a European patent  application shall be the date on which the  documents filed by the applicant contain:
(a)  an indication that a European patent is  sought;
See notice from the EPO of 08.01.2014 concerning  European divisional applications – amendment of  Rules 36, 38 and 135 EPC and Article 2(1) of the  Rules relating to Fees (OJ EPO 2014, A22, Corr.  OJ EPO 2014, A109).

Implementing Regulations
(b)  information identifying the applicant or  allowing the applicant to be contacted; and
(c)  a description or reference to a previously  filed application.
(2)  A reference to a previously filed application under paragraph 1(c) shall state the filing  date and number of that application and the  Office with which it was filed. Such reference  shall indicate that it replaces the description  and any drawings.
(3)  Where the application contains a reference under paragraph 2, a certified copy of the  previously filed application shall be filed within  two months of filing the application. Where the  previously filed application is not in an official  language of the European Patent Office, a  translation thereof in one of these languages  shall be filed within the same period. Rule 53,  paragraph 2, shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Rule 4161   Request for grant
(1)  The request for grant of a European patent shall be filed on a form drawn up by the  European Patent Office.
(2)  The request shall contain:
(a)  a petition for the grant of a European patent;
(b)  the title of the invention, which shall clearly  and concisely state the technical designation of  the invention and shall exclude all fancy names;

Implementing Regulations
(c)62 the name, address and nationality of the  applicant and the State in which his residence  or principal place of business is located. Names  of natural persons shall be indicated by the person's family name, followed by his given  names. Names of legal persons, as well as of  bodies equivalent to legal persons under the  law governing them, shall be indicated by their  official designations. Addresses shall be indicated in accordance with applicable customary  requirements for prompt postal delivery and  shall comprise all the relevant administrative  units, including the house number, if any. It is  recommended that the fax and telephone numbers be indicated;
(d)  if the applicant has appointed a representative, his name and the address of his place of  business as prescribed in sub-paragraph (c);
(e)  where appropriate, an indication that the  application constitutes a divisional application  and the number of the earlier European patent  application;
(f)  in cases covered by Article 61, paragraph 1(b), the number of the original European  patent application;
(g)  where applicable, a declaration claiming  the priority of an earlier application and indicating the date on which and the country in or for  which the earlier application was filed;
(h)  the signature of the applicant or his representative;
(i)  a list of the documents accompanying the  request. This list shall also indicate the number  of sheets of the description, claims, drawings  and abstract filed with the request;

Implementing Regulations
(j)  the designation of the inventor, where the  applicant is the inventor.
(3)  If there is more than one applicant, the  request shall preferably contain the appointment of one applicant or representative as  common representative.
Rule 4263   Content of the description
(1)  The description shall:
(a)  specify the technical field to which the  invention relates;
(b)  indicate the background art which, as far  as is known to the applicant, can be regarded  as useful to understand the invention, draw up  the European search report and examine the  European patent application, and, preferably,  cite the documents reflecting such art;
(c)  disclose the invention, as claimed, in such  terms that the technical problem, even if not  expressly stated as such, and its solution can  be understood, and state any advantageous  effects of the invention with reference to the  background art;
(d)  briefly describe the figures in the drawings,  if any;
(e)  describe in detail at least one way of carrying out the invention claimed, using examples  where appropriate and referring to the drawings, if any;

Implementing Regulations
(f)  indicate explicitly, when it is not obvious  from the description or nature of the invention,  the way in which the invention is industrially  applicable.
(2)  The description shall be presented in the  manner and order specified in paragraph 1, unless, owing to the nature of the invention, a  different presentation would afford a better  understanding or be more concise.
Rule 4364   Form and content of claims
(1)  The claims shall define the matter for  which protection is sought in terms of the  technical features of the invention. Wherever  appropriate, claims shall contain:
(a)  a statement indicating the designation of  the subject-matter of the invention and those  technical features which are necessary for the  definition of the claimed subject-matter but which, in combination, form part of the prior art;
(b)  a characterising portion, beginning with  the expression "characterised in that" or "characterised by" and specifying the technical features for which, in combination with the features  stated under sub-paragraph (a), protection is  sought.
(2)  Without prejudice to Article 82, a European patent application may contain more than  one independent claim in the same category  (product, process, apparatus or use) only if the  subject-matter of the application involves one of  the following:
(a)  a plurality of interrelated products,

Implementing Regulations
(b)  different uses of a product or apparatus,
(c)  alternative solutions to a particular problem, where it is inappropriate to cover these  alternatives by a single claim.
(3)  Any claim stating the essential features of  an invention may be followed by one or more  claims concerning particular embodiments of  that invention.
(4)  Any claim which includes all the features  of any other claim (dependent claim) shall contain, if possible at the beginning, a reference to  the other claim and then state the additional  features. A dependent claim directly referring to  another dependent claim shall also be admissible. All dependent claims referring back to a  single previous claim, and all dependent claims  referring back to several previous claims, shall  be grouped together to the extent and in the  most appropriate way possible.
(5)  The number of claims shall be reasonable  with regard to the nature of the invention  claimed. The claims shall be numbered consecutively in Arabic numerals.
(6)  Except  where  absolutely  necessary,  claims shall not rely on references to the  description or drawings in specifying the  technical features of the invention. In particular,  they shall not contain such expressions as "as described in part ... of the description", or "as illustrated in figure ... of the drawings".

Implementing Regulations
(7)  Where the European patent application  contains drawings including reference signs,  the technical features specified in the claims  shall preferably be followed by such reference  signs relating to these features, placed in  parentheses, if the intelligibility of the claim can  thereby be increased. These reference signs  shall not be construed as limiting the claim.
Rule 44   Unity of invention
(1)  Where a group of inventions is claimed in  a European patent application, the requirement  of unity of invention under Article 82 shall be  fulfilled only when there is a technical relationship among those inventions involving one or  more of the same or corresponding special  technical features. The expression "special  technical features" shall mean those features  which define a contribution which each of the  claimed inventions considered as a whole  makes over the prior art.
(2)  The determination whether a group of  inventions is so linked as to form a single  general inventive concept shall be made  without regard to whether the inventions are  claimed in separate claims or as alternatives  within a single claim.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 45   Claims incurring fees
(1)65 Any European patent application comprising more than fifteen claims shall, in respect of  the sixteenth and each subsequent claim, incur  payment of claims fees as laid down in the  Rules relating to Fees.
(2)  The claims fees shall be paid within one  month of filing the first set of claims. If the  claims fees have not been paid in due time,  they may still be paid within one month of a  communication  concerning  the  failure  to  observe the time limit.
(3)  If a claims fee is not paid in due time, the  claim concerned shall be deemed to be abandoned.
Rule 46   Form of the drawings
(1)  On sheets containing drawings, the usable  surface area shall not exceed 26.2 cm x 17 cm. The usable or used surface shall not be surrounded by frames. The minimum margins shall  be as follows:
top  2.5  cm  left side  2.5  cm  right side  1.5  cm  bottom  1  cm
(2)  Drawings shall be executed as follows:
(a)  Drawings shall be executed without colourings in durable, black, sufficiently dense and  dark, uniformly thick and well-defined lines and  strokes.

Implementing Regulations
(b)  Cross-sections shall be indicated by  hatching which should not impede the clear  reading of the reference signs and leading  lines.
(c)  The scale of the drawings and their  graphical execution shall be such that electronic  or photographic reproduction with a linear  reduction in size to two-thirds will allow all details to be distinguished without difficulty. If, exceptionally, the scale is given on a drawing, it  shall be represented graphically.
(d)  All numbers, letters, and reference signs  appearing on the drawings shall be simple and  clear. Brackets, circles or inverted commas  shall not be used in association with numbers  and letters.
(e)  Generally, all lines in the drawings shall be  drawn with the aid of drafting instruments.
(f)  Elements of the same figure shall be proportional to one another, unless a difference in  proportion is indispensable for the clarity of the  figure.
(g)  The height of the numbers and letters shall  not be less than 0.32 cm. For the lettering of  drawings, the Latin and, where customary, the  Greek alphabets shall be used.

Implementing Regulations
(h)  The same sheet of drawings may contain  several figures. Where figures drawn on two or  more sheets are intended to form a single  figure, the figures on the several sheets shall be  so arranged that the whole figure can be  assembled without concealing any part of the  partial figures. The different figures shall be  arranged without wasting space, preferably in  an upright position, clearly separated from one  another. Where the figures are not arranged in  an upright position, they shall be presented  sideways with the top of the figures at the left  side of the sheet. The different figures shall be  numbered consecutively in Arabic numerals,  independently of the numbering of the sheets.
(i)  Reference signs not mentioned in the  description and claims shall not appear in the  drawings, and vice versa. Reference signs to  features shall be consistent throughout the  application.
(j)  The drawings shall not contain text matter.  Where indispensable to understand the drawings, a few short keywords, such as "water",  "steam", "open", "closed" or "section on AB",  may be included. Any such keywords shall be  placed in such a way that, if required, they can  be replaced by their translations without interfering with any lines of the drawings.
(3)  Flow sheets and diagrams shall be  deemed to be drawings.
Rule 47   Form and content of the abstract
(1)  The abstract shall indicate the title of the  invention.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  The abstract shall contain a concise summary of the disclosure as contained in the  description, the claims and any drawings. The  summary shall indicate the technical field to  which the invention pertains, and shall be  drafted in a manner allowing the clear understanding of the technical problem, the gist of the  solution of that problem through the invention,  and the principal use or uses of the invention.  The abstract shall, where applicable, contain  the chemical formula which, among those contained in the application, best characterises the  invention. It shall not contain statements on the  alleged merits or value of the invention or on  speculative applications thereof.
(3)  The abstract shall preferably not contain  more than one hundred and fifty words.
(4)  If the European patent application contains drawings, the applicant shall indicate the  figure or, exceptionally, the figures of the drawings which should be published with the  abstract. The European Patent Office may  decide to publish one or more other figures if it  considers that they better characterise the  invention. Each essential feature mentioned in  the abstract and illustrated by a drawing shall  be followed by a reference sign placed in  parentheses.
(5)  The abstract shall be drafted in such a  manner as to constitute an efficient instrument  for the purpose of searching in the particular  technical field. In particular, it shall make it possible to assess whether consultation of the European patent application itself is necessary.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 48   Prohibited matter
(1)  The European patent application shall not  contain:
(a)  statements or other matter contrary to  "ordre public" or morality;
(b)  statements disparaging the products or  processes of any third party or the merits or  validity of the applications or patents of any  such party. Mere comparisons with the prior art  shall not be considered disparaging per se;
(c)  any statement or other matter obviously  irrelevant or unnecessary under the circumstances.
(2)  If the application contains matter prohibited under paragraph 1(a), the European Patent  Office may omit such matter from the application as published, indicating the place and  number of words or drawings omitted.
(3)  If the application contains statements  referred to in paragraph 1(b), the European Patent Office may omit them from the application  as published, indicating the place and number  of words omitted. Upon request, the European  Patent Office shall furnish a copy of the passages omitted.
Rule 49   General provisions governing the  presentation of the application documents
(1)  Any translation filed under Article 14,  paragraph 2, or Rule 40, paragraph 3, shall be  deemed to be a document making up the European patent application.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  The documents making up the application  shall be presented so as to allow electronic and  direct reproduction, in particular by scanning,  photography, electrostatic processes, photo offset and microfilming, in an unlimited number of  copies. All sheets shall be free from cracks,  creases and folds. Only one side of the sheet  shall be used.
(3)66 The documents making up the application  shall be on A4 paper (29.7 cm x 21 cm) which shall be pliable, strong, white, smooth, matt and  durable. Subject to paragraph 9 and Rule 46,  paragraph 2(h), each sheet shall be used with  its short sides at the top and bottom (upright  position).
(4)  Each of the documents making up the application (request, description, claims, drawings and abstract) shall commence on a new  sheet. The sheets shall be connected in such a  way that they can easily be turned over,  separated and joined together again.
(5)  Subject to Rule 46, paragraph 1, the  minimum margins shall be as follows:
top  2  cm  left side  2.5  cm  right side  2  cm  bottom  2  cm
The recommended maximum for the margins  quoted above is as follows:
top  4  cm  left side  4  cm  right side  3  cm  bottom  3  cm

Implementing Regulations
(6)  All the sheets contained in the application  shall be numbered in consecutive Arabic  numerals. These shall be centred at the top of  the sheet, but not placed in the top margin.
(7)  The lines of each sheet of the description  and of the claims shall preferably be numbered  in sets of five, the numbers appearing on the  left side, to the right of the margin.
(8)67 The request for grant of a European patent, the description, the claims and the abstract  shall be typed or printed. Only graphic symbols  and characters and chemical or mathematical  formulae may, if necessary, be drawn or written  by hand. The typing shall be 1½ spaced. All text  matter shall be in characters, the capital letters  of which are not less than 0.21 cm high, and  shall be in a dark, indelible colour.
(9)  The request for grant of a European patent, the description, the claims and the abstract  shall not contain drawings. The description,  claims and abstract may contain chemical or  mathematical formulae. The description and  abstract may contain tables. The claims may  contain tables only if their subject-matter makes  the use of tables desirable. Tables and chemical or mathematical formulae may be placed  sideways on the sheet if they cannot be presented satisfactorily in an upright position.  Tables or chemical or mathematical formulae  presented sideways shall be placed so that the  tops of the tables or formulae are at the lefthand side of the sheet.

Implementing Regulations
(10)68  Values shall be expressed in units conforming to international standards, wherever  appropriate in terms of the metric system using  SI units. Any data not meeting this requirement  shall also be expressed in units conforming to  international standards. Only the technical  terms, formulae, signs and symbols generally  accepted in the field in question shall be used.
(11) The terminology and the signs shall be  consistent throughout the European patent  application.
(12) Each sheet shall be reasonably free from  erasures and shall be free from alterations.  Non-compliance with this rule may be authorised if the authenticity of the content is not  impugned and the requirements for good reproduction are not thereby jeopardised.
Rule 5069   Documents filed subsequently
(1)  Rules 42, 43 and 46 to 49 shall apply to  documents replacing documents making up the  European patent application. Rule 49, paragraphs 2 to 12, shall also apply to the translation of the claims referred to in Rule 71.
(2)  All documents other than those making up  the application shall generally be typewritten or  printed. There shall be a margin of about 2.5 cm on the left-hand side of each page.
See notice from the EPO of 08.11.2013 concerning  application of Rules 49 and 50 EPC to handwritten  amendments (OJ EPO 2013, 603).
See decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 3/99  (Annex I).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Documents filed after filing the application  shall be signed, with the exception of annexed  documents. If a document has not been signed,  the European Patent Office shall invite the party  concerned to do so within a time limit to be  specified. If signed in due time, the document  shall retain its original date of receipt; otherwise  it shall be deemed not to have been filed.

Rule 51   Payment of renewal fees
(1)70 A renewal fee for the European patent  application in respect of the coming year shall  be due on the last day of the month containing  the anniversary of the date of filing of the  European patent application. The renewal fee in  respect of the third year may not be validly paid  more than six months before it falls due. All  other renewal fees may not be validly paid more  than three months before they fall due.
(2)71 If a renewal fee is not paid on the due date  under paragraph 1, the fee may still be paid  within six months of the said date, provided that  an additional fee is also paid within that period.  The legal consequence laid down in Article 86,  paragraph 1, shall ensue upon expiry of the sixmonth period.
See notice from the EPO of 16.12.2016 concerning  amendments to Rules 51(2) and 162(2) EPC (OJ EPO  2016, A103).
Temporary suspension between 01.06.2020  until 31.08.2020  by decision of the Administrative  Council CA/D 6/20 of 28.05.2016 (OJ EPO  2020, A70).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Renewal fees already due in respect of an  earlier application at the date on which a divisional application is filed shall also be paid for  the divisional application and shall be due on its  filing. These fees and any renewal fee due  within four months of filing the divisional application may be paid within that period without an  additional fee. Paragraph 2 shall apply.
(4)  If a European patent application has been  refused or deemed to be withdrawn as a result  of non-observance of a time limit, and if the  applicant's rights are re-established under Article 122, a renewal fee
(a)  which would have fallen due under paragraph 1 in the period starting on the date on  which the loss of rights occurred, up to and  including the date of the notification of the  decision re-establishing the rights, shall be due  on that latter date.
This fee and any renewal fee due within four  months from that latter date may still be paid  within four months of that latter date without an  additional fee. Paragraph 2 shall apply.
(b)  which, on the date on which the loss of  rights has occurred, was already due but the  period provided for in paragraph 2 has not yet  expired, may still be paid within six months from  the date of the notification of the decision  re-establishing the rights, provided that the  additional fee pursuant to paragraph 2 is also paid within that period.

Implementing Regulations
(5)  If the Enlarged Board of Appeal re-opens  proceedings before the Board of Appeal under  Article 112a, paragraph 5, second sentence, a  renewal fee
(a)  which would have fallen due under paragraph 1 in the period starting on the date when  the decision of the Board of Appeal subject to  the petition for review was taken, up to and  including the date of the notification of the  decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal  re-opening proceedings before the Board of  Appeal, shall be due on that latter date.
This fee and any renewal fee due within four  months from that latter date may still be paid  within four months of that latter date without an  additional fee. Paragraph 2 shall apply.
(b)  which, on the day on which the decision of  the Board of Appeal was taken, was already  due but the period provided for in paragraph 2 has not yet expired, may still be paid within six  months from the date of the notification of the  decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal  re-opening proceedings before the Board of  Appeal, provided that the additional fee pursuant to paragraph 2 is also paid within that  period.
(6)  A renewal fee shall not be payable for a  new European patent application filed under  Article 61, paragraph 1(b), in respect of the year  in which it was filed and any preceding year.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 52   Declaration of priority
(1)  The declaration of priority referred to in  Article 88, paragraph 1, shall indicate the date  of the previous filing, the State party to the  Paris Convention or Member of the World  Trade Organization in or for which it was made  and the file number. In the case referred to in  Article 87, paragraph 5, the first sentence shall  apply mutatis mutandis.
(2)  The declaration of priority shall preferably  be made on filing the European patent application. It may still be made within sixteen months  from the earliest priority date claimed.
(3)  The applicant may correct the declaration  of priority within sixteen months from the earliest priority date claimed, or, where the correction would cause a change in the earliest priority date claimed, within sixteen months from the  corrected earliest priority date, whichever sixteen-month period expires first, provided that  such a correction may be submitted until the  expiry of four months from the date of filing  accorded to the European patent application.
(4)  However, a declaration of priority may not  be made or corrected after a request under  Article 93, paragraph 1(b), has been filed.
(5)  The particulars of the declaration of priority  shall appear in the published European patent  application and the European patent specification.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 53   Priority documents
(1)  An applicant claiming priority shall file a  copy of the previous application within sixteen  months of the earliest priority date claimed. This  copy and the date of filing of the previous application shall be certified as correct by the  authority with which that application was filed.
(2)72 The copy of the previous application shall  be deemed to be duly filed if a copy of that  application available to the European Patent  Office is to be included in the file of the European patent application under the conditions  determined by the President of the European  Patent Office.
See decision of the President of the EPO of  31.03.2020 on the filing of priority documents (OJ EPO  2020, A57) and notice from the EPO of 22.02.2019  concerning priority document exchange via the WIPO  Digital Access Service (OJ EPO 2019, A27).

Implementing Regulations
(3)73 Where the previous application is not in an  official language of the European Patent Office  and the validity of the priority claim is relevant  to the determination of the patentability of the  invention concerned, the European Patent  Office shall invite the applicant for or proprietor  of the European patent to file a translation of  that application into one of the official languages within a period to be specified. Alternatively, a declaration may be submitted that  the European patent application is a complete  translation of the previous application. Paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. If a  requested translation of a previous application  is not filed in due time, the right of priority for  the European patent application or for the  European patent with respect to that application  shall be lost. The applicant for or proprietor of  the  European  patent  shall  be  informed  accordingly.
Rule 5474   Issuing priority documents
On request, the European Patent Office shall  issue to the applicant a certified copy of the  European patent application (priority document), under the conditions determined by the  President of the European Patent Office, including the form of the priority document and the  circumstances under which an administrative fee shall be paid.
See notice from the EPO of 28.01.2013 (OJ EPO  2013, 150).

Implementing Regulations


Rule 55   Examination on filing
If the examination under Article 90, paragraph 1, reveals that the application fails to  meet the requirements laid down in Rule 40,  paragraph 1(a) or (c), paragraph 2 or paragraph 3, first sentence, the European Patent  Office shall inform the applicant of any deficiencies and advise him that the application will not  be dealt with as a European patent application  unless such deficiencies are remedied within  two months. If the applicant does this, he shall  be informed of the date of filing accorded by the  Office.
Rule 56   Missing parts of the description or missing  drawings
(1)  If the examination under Article 90, paragraph 1, reveals that parts of the description, or  drawings referred to in the description or in the  claims, appear to be missing, the European  Patent Office shall invite the applicant to file the  missing parts within two months. The applicant  may not invoke the omission of such a communication.
(2)  If missing parts of the description or missing drawings are filed later than the date of filing, but within two months of the date of filing  or, if a communication is issued under paragraph 1, within two months of that communication, the application shall be re-dated to the  date on which the missing parts of the description or missing drawings were filed. The European Patent Office shall inform the applicant  accordingly.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  If the missing parts of the description or  missing drawings are filed within the period  under paragraph 2, and the application claims  priority of an earlier application, the date of filing  shall, provided that the missing parts of the  description or the missing drawings are completely contained in the earlier application,  remain the date on which the requirements laid  down in Rule 40, paragraph 1, were fulfilled,  where the applicant so requests and files, within  the period under paragraph 2:
(a)  a copy of the earlier application, unless  such copy is available to the European Patent  Office under Rule 53, paragraph 2;
(b)  where the earlier application is not in an  official language of the European Patent Office,  a translation thereof in one of these languages,  unless such copy is available to the European  Patent Office under Rule 53, paragraph 3; and
(c)  an indication as to where the missing parts  of the description or the missing drawings are  completely contained in the earlier application  and, where applicable, in the translation  thereof.
(4)  If the applicant:
(a)  fails to file the missing parts of the description or the missing drawings within the period  under paragraph 1 or 2,
or
(b)  withdraws under paragraph 6 any missing  part of the description or missing drawing filed  under paragraph 2,
any references referred to in paragraph 1 shall  be deemed to be deleted, and any filing of the  missing parts of the description or missing  drawings shall be deemed not to have been  made. The European Patent Office shall inform  the applicant accordingly.

Implementing Regulations
(5)  If the applicant fails to comply with the  requirements referred to in paragraph 3(a) to (c) within the period under paragraph 2, the application shall be re-dated to the date on which  the missing parts of the description or missing  drawings were filed. The European Patent  Office shall inform the applicant accordingly.
(6)  Within one month of the notification  referred to in paragraph 2 or 5, last sentence,  the applicant may withdraw the missing parts of  the description or the missing drawings filed, in  which case the re-dating shall be deemed not to  have been made. The European Patent Office  shall inform the applicant accordingly.
Rule 57   Examination as to formal requirements
If the European patent application has been  accorded a date of filing, the European Patent  Office shall examine, in accordance with  Article 90, paragraph 3, whether:
(a)75 a translation of the application required  under Article 14, paragraph 2, under Rule 36,  paragraph 2,  second  sentence,  or  under  Rule 40, paragraph 3, second sentence, has  been filed in due time;
(b)  the request for grant of a European patent  satisfies the requirements of Rule 41;
(c)  the application contains one or more  claims in accordance with Article 78, paragraph 1(c), or a reference to a previously filed  application in accordance with Rule 40, paragraphs 1(c), 2 and 3, indicating that it replaces  also the claims;
(d)  the application contains an abstract in  accordance with Article 78, paragraph 1(e);

Implementing Regulations
(e)  the filing fee and the search fee have been  paid in accordance with Rule 17, paragraph 2, Rule 36, paragraph 3, or Rule 38;
(f)  the designation of the inventor has been  made in accordance with Rule 19, paragraph 1;
(g)  where appropriate, the requirements laid  down in Rules 52 and 53 concerning the claim  to priority have been satisfied;
(h)  where appropriate, the requirements of  Article 133, paragraph 2, have been satisfied;
(i)  the application meets the requirements  laid down in Rule 46 and Rule 49, paragraphs 1 to 9 and 12;
(j)76 the application meets the requirements  laid down in Rule 30.
Rule 58   Correction of deficiencies in the application  documents
If the European patent application does not  comply with the requirements of Rule 57(a) to  (d), (h) and (i), the European Patent Office shall  inform the applicant accordingly and invite him  to correct the deficiencies noted within two  months. The description, claims and drawings  may be amended only to an extent sufficient to  remedy such deficiencies.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 59   Deficiencies in claiming priority
If the file number of the previous application  under Rule 52, paragraph 1, or the copy of that  application under Rule 53, paragraph 1, have  not been filed in due time, the European Patent  Office shall inform the applicant accordingly and  invite him to file them within a period to be  specified.
Rule 60   Subsequent designation of the inventor
(1)  If the designation of the inventor has not  been made in accordance with Rule 19, the  European Patent Office shall inform the applicant that the European patent application will be refused unless the designation is made  within sixteen months of the date of filing of the  application or, if priority is claimed, of the date  of priority, this period being deemed to have  been observed if the information is communicated before completion of the technical preparations for the publication of the European patent application.
(2)  Where, in a divisional application or a new  application under Article 61, paragraph 1(b), the  designation of the inventor has not been made  in accordance with Rule 19, the European Patent Office shall invite the applicant to make the  designation within a period to be specified.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 6177   Content of the European search report
(1)  The European search report shall mention  those documents, available to the European  Patent Office at the time of drawing up the  report, which may be taken into consideration in  deciding whether the invention to which the  European patent application relates is new and  involves an inventive step.
(2)  Each citation shall be referred to the  claims to which it relates. Where appropriate,  relevant parts of the documents cited shall be  identified.
(3)  The European search report shall distinguish between cited documents published  before the date of priority claimed, between  such date of priority and the date of filing, and  on or after the date of filing.
(4)  Any document which refers to an oral disclosure, a use or any other means of disclosure  which took place before the date of filing of the  European patent application shall be mentioned  in the European search report, together with an  indication of the date of publication, if any, of  the document and the date of the non-written  disclosure.
(5)  The European search report shall be  drawn up in the language of the proceedings.

Implementing Regulations
(6)  The European search report shall contain  the classification of the subject-matter of the  European patent application in accordance with  the international classification.
Rule 6278   Extended European search report
(1)  The European search report shall be  accompanied by an opinion on whether the  application and the invention to which it relates  seem to meet the requirements of this Convention, unless a communication under Rule 71,  paragraph 1 or 3, can be issued.
(2)  The opinion under paragraph 1 shall not  be published together with the search report.
Rule 62a79   Applications containing a plurality of  independent claims
(1)  If the European Patent Office considers  that the claims as filed do not comply with  Rule 43, paragraph 2, it shall invite the applicant to indicate, within a period of two months,  the claims complying with Rule 43, paragraph 2, on the basis of which the search is to  be carried out. If the applicant fails to provide  such an indication in due time, the search shall  be carried out on the basis of the first claim in  each category.
(2)  The Examining Division shall invite the  applicant to restrict the claims to the subjectmatter searched unless it finds that the objection under paragraph 1 was not justified.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 6380   Incomplete search
(1)  If the European Patent Office considers  that the European patent application fails to  such an extent to comply with this Convention  that it is impossible to carry out a meaningful  search regarding the state of the art on the  basis of all or some of the subject-matter  claimed, it shall invite the applicant to file, within  a period of two months, a statement indicating  the subject-matter to be searched.
(2)  If the statement under paragraph 1 is not  filed in due time, or if it is not sufficient to overcome the deficiency noted under paragraph 1, the European Patent Office shall either issue a  reasoned declaration stating that the European  patent application fails to such an extent to  comply with this Convention that it is impossible  to carry out a meaningful search regarding the  state of the art on the basis of all or some of the  subject-matter claimed or, as far as is practicable, draw up a partial search report. The reasoned declaration or the partial search report  shall be considered, for the purposes of subsequent proceedings, as the European search  report.
(3)  When a partial search report has been  drawn up, the Examining Division shall invite  the applicant to restrict the claims to the subject-matter searched unless it finds that the  objection under paragraph 1 was not justified.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 6481   European search report where the invention  lacks unity
(1)82 If the European Patent Office considers  that the European patent application does not  comply with the requirement of unity of invention, it shall draw up a partial search report on  those parts of the application which relate to the  invention, or the group of inventions within the  meaning of Article 82, first mentioned in the  claims. It shall inform the applicant that, for the  European search report to cover the other  inventions, a further search fee must be paid, in  respect of each invention involved, within a  period of two months. The European search  report shall be drawn up for the parts of the  application relating to inventions in respect of  which search fees have been paid.
(2)83 Any fee paid under paragraph 1 shall be  refunded if, during the examination of the European patent application, the applicant requests  a refund and the Examining Division finds that  the communication under paragraph 1 was not  justified.
Rule 65   Transmittal of the European search report
Immediately after it has been drawn up, the  European search report shall be transmitted to  the applicant together with copies of any cited  documents.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 66   Definitive content of the abstract
Upon drawing up the European search report,  the European Patent Office shall determine the  definitive content of the abstract and transmit it  to the applicant together with the search report.

Rule 6784   Technical preparations for publication
(1)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall determine when the technical  preparations for publication of the European  patent application are deemed to have been  completed.
(2)  The application shall not be published if it  has been finally refused or withdrawn or is  deemed to be withdrawn before the termination  of the technical preparations for publication.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 6885   Form of the publication of European patent  applications and European search reports
(1)  The publication of the European patent  application shall contain the description, the  claims and any drawings as filed, and the  abstract, or, if these documents making up the  application were not filed in an official language  of the European Patent Office, a translation in  the language of the proceedings, and, in an  annex, the European search report, where it is  available before the termination of the technical  preparations for publication. If the search report  or the abstract is not published at the same  time as the application, it shall be published  separately.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall  determine the form  of the  publication of the application and the data to be  included. The same shall apply where the  European search report and the abstract are  published separately.
(3)  The designated Contracting States shall  be indicated in the published application.

Implementing Regulations
(4)86 If the claims were not filed on the date of  filing of the application, this shall be indicated  when the application is published. If, before the  termination of the technical preparations for  publication of the application, the claims have  been amended under Rule 137, paragraph 2, the new or amended claims shall be included in  the publication in addition to the claims as filed.
Rule 6987   Information about publication
(1)  The European Patent Office shall inform  the applicant of the date on which the European  Patent Bulletin mentions the publication of the  European search report and shall draw his  attention to Rule 70, paragraph 1, Article 94,  paragraph 2, and Rule 70a, paragraph 1.
(2)  If a date of publication is specified in the  communication under paragraph 1 which is  later than the actual date of publication, that  later date shall be the decisive date as regards  the periods referred to in Rule 70, paragraph 1, and Rule 70a, paragraph 1, unless the error is  obvious.
Rule 70   Request for examination
(1)88 The applicant may request examination of  the European patent application up to six  months after the date on which the European  Patent Bulletin mentions the publication of the  European search report. The request may not  be withdrawn.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  If the request for examination has been  filed before the European search report has  been transmitted to the applicant, the European  Patent Office shall invite the applicant to indicate, within a period to be specified, whether he  wishes to proceed further with the application,  and shall give him the opportunity to comment  on the search report and to amend, where  appropriate,  the  description,  claims  and  drawings.
(3)  If the applicant fails to reply in due time to  the invitation under paragraph 2, the application  shall be deemed to be withdrawn.

Rule 70a89   Response to the extended European search  report
(1)  In the opinion accompanying the European search report the European Patent Office  shall give the applicant the opportunity to comment on the extended European search report  and, where appropriate, invite him to correct  any deficiencies noted in the opinion accompanying the European search report and to amend  the description, claims and drawings within the  period referred to in Rule 70, paragraph 1.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  In the case referred to in Rule 70, paragraph 2, or if a supplementary European search  report is drawn up on a Euro-PCT application,  the European Patent Office shall give the  applicant the opportunity to comment on the  extended European search report and, where  appropriate, invite him to correct any deficiencies noted in the opinion accompanying the  European search report and to amend the  description, claims and drawings within the  period specified for indicating whether he  wishes to proceed further with the application.
(3)  If the applicant neither complies with nor  comments on an invitation in accordance with  paragraph 1 or 2, the application shall be  deemed to be withdrawn.
Rule 70b90   Request for a copy of search results
(1)  Where the European Patent Office notes,  at the time the Examining Division assumes  responsibility, that a copy referred to in  Rule 141, paragraph 1, has not been filed by  the applicant and is not deemed to be duly filed  under Rule 141, paragraph 2, it shall invite the applicant to file, within a period of two months, the copy or a statement that the results of the  search referred to in Rule 141, paragraph 1, are  not available to him.
(2)  If the applicant fails to reply in due time to  the invitation under paragraph 1, the European  patent application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.
See notices from the EPO of 28.07.2010 concerning  amended Rule 141 EPC and new Rule 70b EPC –  utilisation scheme (OJ EPO 2010, 410) and of  10.12.2014 concerning exemption under Rule 141(2)  EPC from filing a copy of the search results –  utilisation scheme (OJ EPO 2015, A3).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 7191, 92, 93   Examination procedure
(1)  In any communication under Article 94,  paragraph 3, the Examining Division shall,  where appropriate, invite the applicant to correct any deficiencies noted and to amend the  description, claims and drawings within a period  to be specified.
(2)  Any communication under Article 94, paragraph 3, shall contain a reasoned statement  covering, where appropriate, all the grounds  against the grant of the European patent.
(3)94 Before the Examining Division decides to  grant the European patent, it shall inform the  applicant of the text in which it intends to grant  it and of the related bibliographic data. In this  communication the Examining Division shall  invite the applicant to pay the fee for grant and  publishing and to file a translation of the claims  in the two official languages of the European  Patent Office other than the language of the  proceedings within four months.
(4)  If the European patent application in the  text intended for grant comprises more than  fifteen claims, the Examining Division shall  invite the applicant to pay claims fees in respect  of the sixteenth and each subsequent claim  within the period under paragraph 3 unless the  said fees have already been paid under Rule 45 or Rule 162.

Implementing Regulations
(5)  If the applicant, within the period laid down  in paragraph 3, pays the fees under paragraph 3 and, where applicable, paragraph 4 and files the translations under paragraph 3, he  shall be deemed to have approved the text  communicated to him under paragraph 3 and  verified the bibliographic data.
(6)  If the applicant, within the period under  paragraph 3, requests reasoned amendments  or corrections to the communicated text or  keeps to the latest text submitted by him, the  Examining  Division  shall  issue  a  new  communication under paragraph 3 if it gives its consent;  otherwise  it  shall  resume  the  examination proceedings.
(7)  If the fee for grant and publishing or the  claims fees are not paid in due time, or if the  translations are not filed in due time, the  European patent application shall be deemed to  be withdrawn.
Rule 71a95   Conclusion of the grant procedure
(1)  The decision to grant the European patent  shall be issued if all fees have been paid, a  translation of the claims in the two official  languages of the European Patent Office other  than the language of the proceedings has been  filed and there is agreement as to the text to be  granted. It shall state which text of the  European patent application forms the basis for  the decision.
See notice from the EPO of 13.12.2011 (OJ EPO  2012, 52).

Implementing Regulations
(2)  Until the decision to grant the European  patent, the Examining Division may resume the  examination proceedings at any time.
(3)  If the designation fee becomes due after  the communication under Rule 71, paragraph 3, the mention of the grant of the European patent  shall not be published until the designation fee  has been paid. The applicant shall be informed  accordingly.
(4)  If a renewal fee becomes due after the  communication under Rule 71, paragraph 3, and  before  the  next  possible  date  for  publication of the mention of the grant of the  European patent, the mention shall not be  published until the renewal fee has been paid.  The applicant shall be informed accordingly.
(5)  If, in response to an invitation under  Rule 71, paragraph 3, the applicant has already  paid the fee for grant and publishing or the  claims fees, the paid amount shall be credited if  a further such invitation is issued.
(6)  If the European patent application is  refused, withdrawn prior to notification of the  decision on the grant of a European patent or,  at that time, deemed to be withdrawn, the fee  for grant and publishing shall be refunded.
Rule 72   Grant of the European patent to different  applicants
Where different persons are recorded in the  European Patent Register as applicants in  respect of different Contracting States, the  European  Patent  Office  shall  grant  the  European patent for each Contracting State  accordingly.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 7396   Content and form of the specification
(1)  The specification of the European patent  shall include the description, the claims and any  drawings. It shall also indicate the period for  opposing the European patent.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall determine the form of the publication of the specification and the data to be  included.
(3)  The designated Contracting States shall  be indicated in the specification.
Rule 7497   Certificate for a European patent
As soon as the specification of the European  patent has been published, the European Patent Office shall issue to the proprietor of the  patent a certificate for a European patent. The  President of the European Patent Office shall  prescribe the content, form and means of communication of the certificate and determine the  circumstances in which an administrative fee is  payable.

Implementing Regulations


Rule 75   Surrender or lapse of the patent
An opposition may be filed even if the European  patent has been surrendered in all the designated Contracting States or has lapsed in all  those States.
Rule 7698   Form and content of the opposition
(1)  Notice of opposition shall be filed in a written reasoned statement.
(2) The notice of opposition shall contain:
(a)  particulars of the opponent as provided in  Rule 41, paragraph 2(c);
(b)  the number of the European patent  against which opposition is filed, the name of  the proprietor of the patent and the title of the  invention;
(c)  a statement of the extent to which the  European patent is opposed and of the grounds  on which the opposition is based, as well as an  indication of the facts and evidence presented  in support of these grounds;
(d)  if the opponent has appointed a representative, particulars as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(d).
(3)  Part III of the Implementing Regulations  shall apply mutatis mutandis to the notice of  opposition.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 7799   Rejection of the opposition as inadmissible
(1)100 If the Opposition Division notes that the  notice of opposition does not comply with Article 99, paragraph 1, or Rule 76, paragraph 2(c), or does not sufficiently identify the patent  against which opposition has been filed, it shall  reject the opposition as inadmissible, unless  these deficiencies have been remedied before  expiry of the opposition period.
(2)  If the Opposition Division notes that the notice of opposition does not comply with provisions other than those referred to in paragraph 1, it shall communicate this to the opponent and  shall invite him to remedy the deficiencies noted  within a period to be specified. If the deficiencies  are not remedied in due time, the Opposition Division shall reject the opposition as inadmissible.
(3)  The decision to reject an opposition as  inadmissible shall be communicated to the proprietor of the patent, together with a copy of the  notice of opposition.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 78101   Procedure where the proprietor of the patent  is not entitled
(1)  If a third party provides evidence, during  opposition proceedings or during the opposition  period, that he has instituted proceedings  against the proprietor of the European patent,  seeking a decision within the meaning of Article 61, paragraph 1, opposition proceedings  shall be stayed unless the third party communicates to the European Patent Office in writing  his consent to the continuation of such proceedings. Such consent shall be irrevocable. However, proceedings shall not be stayed until the  Opposition Division has deemed the opposition  admissible. Rule 14, paragraphs 2 to 4, shall  apply mutatis mutandis.
(2)  Where a third party has, in accordance  with Article 99, paragraph 4, replaced the previous proprietor for one or some of the designated Contracting States, the patent as maintained in opposition proceedings may, for these  States, contain claims, a description and drawings different from those for the other designated States.
Rule 79102   Preparation of the examination of the  opposition
(1)  The Opposition Division shall communicate the notice of opposition to the proprietor of  the patent and shall give him the opportunity to  file his observations and to amend, where  appropriate, the description, claims and drawings within a period to be specified.
(2)  If several notices of opposition have been  filed, the Opposition Division shall communicate  them to the other opponents at the same time  as the communication under paragraph 1.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  The Opposition Division shall communicate any observations and amendments filed  by the proprietor of the patent to the other parties, and shall invite them, if it considers this  expedient, to reply within a period to be specified.
(4)  In the case of an intervention under Article 105, the Opposition Division may dispense  with the application of paragraphs 1 to 3.
Rule 80103   Amendment of the European patent
Without prejudice to Rule 138, the description,  claims and drawings may be amended, provided that the amendments are occasioned by  a ground for opposition under Article 100, even  if that ground has not been invoked by the  opponent.
Rule 81104   Examination of opposition
(1)105 The Opposition Division shall examine  those grounds for opposition which are invoked  in the opponent's statement under Rule 76,  paragraph 2(c). Grounds for opposition not  invoked by the opponent may be examined by  the Opposition Division of its own motion if they  would prejudice the maintenance of the European patent.
(2)  Communications under Article 101, paragraph 1, second sentence, and all replies  thereto shall be sent to all parties. If the Opposition Division considers this expedient, it shall  invite the parties to reply within a period to be  specified.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  In any communication under Article 101,  paragraph 1, second sentence, the proprietor of  the European patent shall, where necessary, be  given the opportunity to amend, where appropriate, the description, claims and drawings.  Where necessary, the communication shall  contain a reasoned statement covering the  grounds against the maintenance of the European patent.
Rule 82106   Maintenance of the European patent in  amended form
(1)  Before the Opposition Division decides to  maintain the European patent as amended, it  shall inform the parties of the text in which it  intends to maintain the patent, and shall invite  them to file their observations within two  months if they disapprove of that text.
(2)107 If a party disapproves of the text communicated by the Opposition Division, examination  of the opposition may be continued. Otherwise,  the Opposition Division shall, on expiry of the  period under paragraph 1, invite the proprietor  of the patent to pay the prescribed fee and to  file a translation of any amended claims in the  official languages of the European Patent Office  other than the language of the proceedings,  within a period of three months. Where, in oral  proceedings, decisions under Article 106, paragraph 2, or Article 111, paragraph 2, have been  based on documents not complying with Rule  49, paragraph 8, the proprietor of the patent  shall be invited to file the amended text in a  form compliant with Rule 49, paragraph 8, within the three-month period.
See notice from the EPO of 09.03.2016 (OJ EPO  2016, A22).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  If the acts required under paragraph 2 are  not performed in due time, they may still be performed within two months of a communication  concerning the failure to observe the time limit,  provided that a surcharge is paid within this  period. Otherwise, the patent shall be revoked.
(4)  The decision to maintain the European  patent as amended shall state which text of the  patent forms the basis for the decision.
Rule 83   Request for documents
Documents referred to by a party to opposition  proceedings shall be filed together with the  notice of opposition or the written submissions. If such documents are neither enclosed nor  filed in due time upon invitation by the European Patent Office, it may decide not to take into account any arguments based on them.
Rule 84108   Continuation of the opposition proceedings  by the European Patent Office of its own  motion
(1)  If the European patent has been surrendered in all the designated Contracting States  or has lapsed in all those States, the opposition  proceedings may be continued at the request of  the opponent filed within two months of a communication from the European Patent Office  informing him of the surrender or lapse.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  In the event of the death or legal incapacity of an opponent, the opposition proceedings  may be continued by the European Patent  Office of its own motion, even without the participation of the heirs or legal representatives.  The same shall apply where the opposition is  withdrawn.
Rule 85   Transfer of the European patent
Rule 22 shall apply to any transfer of the European patent made during the opposition period  or during opposition proceedings.
Rule 86109   Documents in opposition proceedings
Part III of the Implementing Regulations shall  apply mutatis mutandis to documents filed in  opposition proceedings.
Rule 87   Content and form of the new specification of  the European patent
The new specification of the European patent  shall include the description, claims and drawings as amended. Rule 73, paragraphs 2 and 3, and Rule 74 shall apply.
Rule 88   Costs
(1)  The apportionment of costs shall be dealt  with in the decision on the opposition. Such  apportionment shall only take into consideration  the expenses necessary to assure proper protection of the rights involved. The costs shall  include the remuneration of the representatives  of the parties.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  The Opposition Division shall, on request,  fix the amount of costs to be paid under a final  decision apportioning them. A bill of costs, with supporting evidence, shall be attached to the  request. Costs may be fixed once their credibility is established.
(3)  A request for a decision by the Opposition  Division may be filed within one month of the  communication on the fixing of costs under  paragraph 2. The request shall be filed in writing and state the grounds on which it is based.  It shall not be deemed to be filed until the prescribed fee has been paid.
(4)  The Opposition Division shall decide on  the request under paragraph 3 without oral proceedings.
Rule 89110   Intervention of the assumed infringer
(1)  Notice of intervention shall be filed within  three months of the date on which proceedings  referred to in Article 105 are instituted.
(2)  Notice of intervention shall be filed in a  written reasoned statement; Rules 76 and 77 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The notice of  intervention shall not be deemed to have been  filed until the opposition fee has been paid.

Rule 90   Subject of proceedings
The subject of limitation or revocation proceedings under Article 105a shall be the European  patent as granted or as amended in opposition  or limitation proceedings before the European  Patent Office.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 91   Responsibility for proceedings
Decisions on requests for limitation or revocation of the European patent under Article 105a shall be taken by the Examining Division. Article 18, paragraph 2, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Rule 92   Requirements of the request
(1)111 The request for limitation or revocation of  a European patent shall be filed in writing in  one of the official languages of the European  Patent Office. It may also be filed in an official  language of a Contracting State, provided that a  translation is filed in one of the official languages of the European Patent Office within the  period specified in Rule 6, paragraph 2. Part III of the Implementing Regulations shall apply  mutatis mutandis to documents filed in limitation  or revocation proceedings.
(2)  The request shall contain:
(a)  particulars of the proprietor of the European patent making the request (the requester)  as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(c), and an  indication of the Contracting States for which  the requester is the proprietor of the patent;
(b)  the number of the patent whose limitation  or revocation is requested, and a list of the  Contracting States in which the patent has  taken effect;

Implementing Regulations
(c)  where  appropriate,  the  names  and  addresses of the proprietors of the patent for  those Contracting States in which the requester  is not the proprietor of the patent, and evidence  that the requester is entitled to act on their  behalf in the proceedings;
(d)  where limitation of the patent is requested,  the complete version of the amended claims  and, as the case may be, of the amended  description and drawings;
(e)  where the requester has appointed a representative, particulars as provided in Rule 41,  paragraph 2(d).
Rule 93   Precedence of opposition proceedings
(1)  The request for limitation or revocation  shall be deemed not to have been filed if opposition proceedings in respect of the patent are  pending at the time of filing the request.
(2)  If, at the time of filing an opposition to a  European patent, limitation proceedings in  respect of that patent are pending, the  Examining Division shall terminate the limitation  proceedings and order the reimbursement of  the limitation fee. The reimbursement shall also  be ordered in respect of the fee referred to in  Rule 95, paragraph 3, first sentence, if the  requester has already paid this fee.
Rule 94   Rejection of the request as inadmissible
If the Examining Division finds that the request  for limitation or revocation fails to comply with  the requirements of Rule 92, it shall invite the requester to correct the deficiencies noted,  within a period to be specified. If the deficiencies are not corrected in due time, the Examining Division shall reject the request as inadmissible.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 95   Decision on the request
(1)  If a request for revocation is admissible,  the Examining Division shall revoke the patent  and communicate this to the requester.
(2)  If a request for limitation is admissible, the  Examining Division shall examine whether the  amended claims constitute a limitation vis-à-vis the claims as granted or amended in opposition  or limitation proceedings and comply with  Article 84 and Article 123, paragraphs 2 and 3. If the request does not comply with these  requirements, the Examining Division shall give  the requester one opportunity to correct any  deficiencies noted, and to amend the claims  and, where appropriate, the description and  drawings, within a period to be specified.
(3)112 If a request for limitation is allowable under  paragraph 2,  the  Examining  Division  shall  communicate this to the requester and invite  him to pay the prescribed fee and to file a  translation of the amended claims in the official  languages of the European Patent Office other  than the language of the proceedings, within a  period of three months; Rule 82, paragraph 3, first sentence, shall apply mutatis mutandis. If  the requester performs these acts in due time,  the Examining Division shall limit the patent.
(4)  If the requester does not respond in due  time to the communication issued under paragraph 2, or if the request for limitation is not  allowable, or if the requester fails to perform the  acts required under paragraph 3 in due time,  the Examining Division shall reject the request.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 96   Content and form of the amended European  patent specification
The amended European patent specification  shall include the description, claims and drawings as amended. Rule 73, paragraphs 2 and 3, and Rule 74 shall apply.

Implementing Regulations


Rule 97113   Appeal against apportionment and fixing of  costs
(1)  The apportionment of costs of opposition  proceedings cannot be the sole subject of an  appeal.
(2)  A decision fixing the amount of costs of  opposition proceedings cannot be appealed  unless the amount exceeds that of the fee for  appeal.
Rule 98   Surrender or lapse of the patent
The decision of an Opposition Division may be  appealed even if the European patent has been  surrendered in all the designated Contracting  States or has lapsed in all those States.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 99114   Content of the notice of appeal and the  statement of grounds
(1)  The notice of appeal shall contain:
(a)  the name and the address of the appellant  as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(c);
(b)  an indication of the decision impugned;  and
(c)  a request defining the subject of the  appeal.
(2)  In the statement of grounds of appeal the  appellant shall indicate the reasons for setting  aside the decision impugned, or the extent to  which it is to be amended, and the facts and  evidence on which the appeal is based.
(3)  Part III of the Implementing Regulations  shall apply mutatis mutandis to the notice of  appeal, the statement of grounds and the  documents filed in appeal proceedings.
Rule 100115   Examination of appeals
(1)116 Unless otherwise provided, the provisions  relating to proceedings before the department  which has taken the decision impugned shall  apply to appeal proceedings.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  In the examination of the appeal, the  Board of Appeal shall invite the parties, as often  as necessary, to file observations, within a  period to be specified, on communications  issued by itself or observations submitted by  another party.
(3)  If the applicant fails to reply in due time to  an invitation under paragraph 2, the European  patent application shall be deemed to be withdrawn, unless the decision impugned was taken  by the Legal Division.
Rule 101117   Rejection of the appeal as inadmissible
(1)  If the appeal does not comply with Articles 106 to 108, Rule 97 or Rule 99, paragraph 1(b) or (c) or paragraph 2, the Board of  Appeal shall reject it as inadmissible, unless  any deficiency has been remedied before the  relevant period under Article 108 has expired.
(2)  If the Board of Appeal notes that the  appeal does not comply with Rule 99, paragraph 1(a), it shall communicate this to the  appellant and shall invite him to remedy the  deficiencies noted within a period to be  specified. If the deficiencies are not remedied in  due time, the Board of Appeal shall reject the  appeal as inadmissible.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 102118   Form of decision of the Board of Appeal
The decision shall be authenticated by the  Chairman of the Board of Appeal and by the  competent employee of the registry of the  Board of Appeal, either by their signature or by  any other appropriate means.119 The decision  shall contain:
(a)  a statement that it was delivered by the  Board of Appeal;
(b)  the date when the decision was taken;
(c)  the names of the Chairman and of the  other members of the Board of Appeal taking  part;
(d)  the names of the parties and their representatives;
(e)  the requests of the parties;
(f)  a summary of the facts;
(g)  the reasons;
(h)  the order of the Board of Appeal, including, where appropriate, a decision on costs.
Rule 103120, 121   Reimbursement of appeal fees
(1)  The appeal fee shall be reimbursed in full

Implementing Regulations
(a)  in the event of interlocutory revision or  where the Board of Appeal deems an appeal to  be allowable, if such reimbursement is equitable by reason of a substantial procedural violation, or
(b)  if the appeal is withdrawn before the filing  of the statement of grounds of appeal and  before the period for filing that statement has  expired.
(2)  The appeal fee shall be reimbursed at  75% if, in response to a communication from  the Board of Appeal indicating its intention to  start substantive examination of the appeal, the  appeal is withdrawn within two months of notification of that communication.
(3)  The appeal fee shall be reimbursed at  50% if the appeal is withdrawn after expiry of  the period under paragraph 1(b), provided  withdrawal occurs:
(a)  if a date for oral proceedings has been  set, within one month of notification of a communication issued by the Board of Appeal in  preparation for these oral proceedings;
(b)  if no date for oral proceedings has been  set, and the Board of Appeal has issued a  communication inviting the appellant to file  observations, before expiry of the period set by  the Board for filing observations;
(c)  in all other cases, before the decision is  issued.
(4)  The appeal fee shall be reimbursed at  25%
(a)  if the appeal is withdrawn after expiry of  the period under paragraph 3(a) but before the  decision is announced at oral proceedings;

Implementing Regulations
(b)  if the appeal is withdrawn after expiry of  the period under paragraph 3(b) but before the  decision is issued;
(c)  if any request for oral proceedings is withdrawn within one month of notification of the  communication issued by the Board of Appeal  in preparation for the oral proceedings, and no  oral proceedings take place.
(5)  The appeal fee shall be reimbursed under  only one of the above provisions. Where more  than one rate of reimbursement applies, reimbursement shall be at the higher rate.
(6)  The  department  whose  decision  is  impugned shall order the reimbursement if it  revises its decision and considers reimbursement equitable by reason of a substantial  procedural violation. In all other cases, matters  of reimbursement shall be decided by the Board  of Appeal.

Rule 104   Further fundamental procedural defects
A fundamental procedural defect under Article 112a, paragraph 2(d), may have occurred  where the Board of Appeal,
(a)  contrary to Article 116, failed to arrange for  the holding of oral proceedings requested by  the petitioner, or
(b)  decided on the appeal without deciding on  a request relevant to that decision.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 105   Criminal acts
A petition for review may be based on Article 112a, paragraph 2(e), if a competent court  or authority has finally established that the  criminal act occurred; a conviction is not necessary.
Rule 106   Obligation to raise objections
A petition under Article 112a, paragraph 2(a) to  (d), is only admissible where an objection in  respect of the procedural defect was raised  during the appeal proceedings and dismissed  by the Board of Appeal, except where such  objection could not be raised during the appeal  proceedings.
Rule 107   Contents of the petition for review
(1)  The petition shall contain:
(a)  the name and the address of the petitioner  as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(c);
(b)  an indication of the decision to be  reviewed.
(2)  The petition shall indicate the reasons for  setting aside the decision of the Board of  Appeal, and the facts and evidence on which  the petition is based.
(3)  Part III of the Implementing Regulations  shall apply mutatis mutandis to the petition for  review and the documents filed in the proceedings.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 108   Examination of the petition
(1)  If the petition does not comply with Article 112a, paragraphs 1, 2 or 4, Rule 106 or  Rule 107, paragraph 1(b) or 2, the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall reject it as inadmissible,  unless any defect has been remedied before  the relevant period under Article 112a, paragraph 4, expires.
(2)  If the Enlarged Board of Appeal notes that  the petition does not comply with Rule 107,  paragraph 1(a), it shall communicate this to the  petitioner and shall invite him to remedy the  deficiencies noted within a period to be  specified. If the deficiencies are not remedied in  due time, the Enlarged Board of Appeal shall  reject the petition as inadmissible.
(3)122 If the petition is allowable, the Enlarged  Board of Appeal shall set aside the decision of  the Board of Appeal and order the re-opening of  the proceedings before the Board of Appeal  responsible under Rule 12b, paragraph 4. The  Enlarged Board of Appeal may order that members of the Board of Appeal who participated in  taking the decision set aside shall be replaced.
Rule 109   Procedure in dealing with petitions for  review
(1)  In proceedings under Article 112a, the provisions relating to proceedings before the  Boards of Appeal shall apply, unless otherwise  provided. Rule 115, paragraph 1, second sentence, Rule 118, paragraph 2, first sentence,  and Rule 132, paragraph 2, shall not apply. The  Enlarged Board of Appeal may specify a period  deviating from Rule 4, paragraph 1, first sentence.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  The Enlarged Board of Appeal
(a)  consisting of two legally qualified members  and one technically qualified member shall  examine all petitions for review and shall reject  those which are clearly inadmissible or unallowable; such decision shall require unanimity;
(b)  consisting of four legally qualified members and one technically qualified member shall  decide on any petition not rejected under  sub-paragraph (a).
(3)  The Enlarged Board of Appeal composed  according to paragraph 2(a) shall decide without the involvement of other parties and on the  basis of the petition.
Rule 110   Reimbursement of the fee for petitions for  review
The Enlarged Board of Appeal shall order the  reimbursement of the fee for a petition for  review if the proceedings before the Boards of  Appeal are reopened.

Implementing Regulations


Rule 111123   Form of decisions
(1)  Where oral proceedings are held before  the European Patent Office, the decision may  be given orally. The decision shall subsequently  be put in writing and notified to the parties.
(2)  Decisions of the European Patent Office  which are open to appeal shall be reasoned  and shall be accompanied by a communication  pointing out the possibility of appeal and drawing the attention of the parties to Articles 106 to  108, the text of which shall be attached. The  parties may not invoke the omission of the  communication.
Rule 112124   Noting of loss of rights
(1)  If the European Patent Office notes that a  loss of rights has occurred, without any decision  concerning the refusal of the European patent  application or the grant, revocation or maintenance of the European patent, or the taking of  evidence, it shall communicate this to the party  concerned.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  If the party concerned considers that the  finding of the European Patent Office is inaccurate, it may, within two months of the communication under paragraph 1, apply for a decision  on the matter. The European Patent Office shall  take such decision only if it does not share the  opinion of the party requesting it; otherwise, it  shall inform that party.
Rule 113125   Signature, name, seal
(1)  Any decisions, summonses, notices and  communications from the European Patent  Office shall be signed by, and state the name  of, the employee responsible.
(2)  Where a document referred to in paragraph 1 is produced by the employee responsible using a computer, a seal may replace the  signature. Where the document is produced  automatically by a computer, the employee's  name may also be dispensed with. The same  shall apply to pre-printed notices and communications.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 114126   Observations by third parties
(1)  Any observations by a third party shall be  filed in writing in an official language of the  European Patent Office and state the grounds  on which they are based. Rule 3, paragraph 3, shall apply.
(2)  Any such observations shall be communicated to the applicant for or proprietor of the  patent, who may comment on them.

Rule 115127   Summons to oral proceedings
(1)  The parties shall be summoned to oral  proceedings under Article 116, drawing their  attention to paragraph 2 of this Rule. At least  two months' notice of the summons shall be  given, unless the parties agree to a shorter  period.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  If a party duly summoned to oral proceedings before the European Patent Office does  not appear as summoned, the proceedings may  continue without that party.
Rule 116128   Preparation of oral proceedings
(1)  When issuing the summons, the European  Patent Office shall draw attention to the points  which in its opinion need to be discussed for the  purposes of the decision to be taken. At the  same time a final date for making written submissions in preparation for the oral proceedings  shall be fixed. Rule 132 shall not apply. New  facts and evidence presented after that date  need not be considered, unless admitted on the  grounds that the subject of the proceedings has  changed.
(2)  If the applicant or patent proprietor has  been notified of the grounds prejudicing the  grant or maintenance of the patent, he may be  invited to submit, by the date specified in paragraph 1, second sentence, documents which  meet the requirements of the Convention. Paragraph 1, third and fourth sentences, shall  apply mutatis mutandis.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 117   Decision on taking of evidence
Where the European Patent Office considers it  necessary to hear a party, witness or expert, or  to carry out an inspection, it shall take a decision to this end, setting out the investigation  which it intends to carry out, relevant facts to be  proved and the date, time and place of the investigation. If the hearing of a witness or expert  is requested by a party, the decision shall specify the period within which the requester must make known the name and address of any witness or expert concerned.
Rule 118   Summons to give evidence before the  European Patent Office
(1)  A summons to give evidence before the  European Patent Office shall be issued to the  parties, witnesses or experts concerned.
(2)  At least two months' notice of a summons  issued to a party, witness or expert to testify shall be given, unless they agree to a shorter  period. The summons shall contain:
(a)  an extract from the decision under  Rule 117, indicating the date, time and place of  the investigation ordered and stating the facts in  respect of which parties, witnesses or experts  are to be heard;
(b)  the names of the parties and particulars of  the rights which the witnesses or experts may  invoke under Rule 122, paragraphs 2 to 4;

Implementing Regulations
(c)  an indication that the party, witness or  expert may request to be heard by a competent  court of his country of residence under  Rule 120, and an invitation to inform the European Patent Office, within a period to be specified, whether he is prepared to appear before it.
Rule 119   Examination of evidence before the  European Patent Office
(1)  The Examining Division, Opposition Division or Board of Appeal may commission one of  its members to examine the evidence adduced.
(2)  Before a party, witness or expert may be  heard, he shall be informed that the European  Patent Office may request the competent court  in the country of residence of the person concerned to re-examine his testimony under oath  or in an equally binding form.
(3)  The parties may attend an investigation  and may put relevant questions to the testifying  party, witness or expert.
Rule 120   Hearing by a competent national court
(1)  A party, witness or expert who is summoned before the European Patent Office may  request the latter to allow him to be heard by a  competent court in his country of residence. If  this is requested, or if no reply is received within  the period specified in the summons, the European Patent Office may, in accordance with Article 131, paragraph 2, request the competent  court to hear the person concerned.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  If a party, witness or expert has been  heard by the European Patent Office, the latter  may, if it considers it advisable for the testimony  to be given under oath or in an equally binding  form, issue a request under Article 131, paragraph 2, to the competent court in the country  of residence of the person concerned to  re-examine his testimony under such conditions.
(3)  When  the  European  Patent  Office  requests a competent court to take evidence, it  may request the court to take the evidence  under oath or in an equally binding form and to  permit a member of the department concerned  to attend the hearing and question the party,  witness or expert, either through the intermediary of the court or directly.
Rule 121   Commissioning of experts
(1)  The European Patent Office shall decide  in what form the opinion of an expert whom it  appoints shall be submitted.
(2)  The terms of reference of the expert shall  include:
(a)  a precise description of his task;
(b)  the period specified for the submission of  his opinion;
(c)  the names of the parties to the proceedings;
(d)  particulars of the rights which he may  invoke under Rule 122, paragraphs 2 to 4.
(3)  A copy of any written opinion shall be  submitted to the parties.

Implementing Regulations
(4)  The parties may object to an expert. The  department of the European Patent Office concerned shall decide on the objection.
Rule 122   Costs of taking of evidence
(1)  The taking of evidence by the European  Patent Office may be made conditional upon  deposit with it, by the party requesting the evidence to be taken, of an amount to be fixed by  reference to an estimate of the costs.
(2)  Witnesses or experts who are summoned  by and appear before the European Patent  Office  shall  be  entitled  to  appropriate  reimbursement of expenses for travel and  subsistence. An advance for these expenses  may be granted to them. This shall also apply to  persons who appear before the European  Patent Office without being summoned by it and  are heard as witnesses or experts.
(3)  Witnesses  entitled  to  reimbursement  under paragraph 2 shall also be entitled to  appropriate compensation for loss of earnings,  and experts to fees for their work. These  payments shall be made to the witnesses and  experts after they have fulfilled their duties or  tasks.
(4)129 The Administrative Council shall lay down  the details implementing paragraphs 2 and 3. Any amounts due under these provisions shall  be paid by the European Patent Office.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 123   Conservation of evidence
(1)  On request, the European Patent Office  may, without delay, take measures to conserve  evidence of facts liable to affect a decision  which it may be called upon to take with regard  to a European patent application or a European  patent, where there is reason to fear that it  might subsequently become more difficult or  even impossible to take evidence. The date on  which the measures are to be taken shall be  communicated to the applicant for or proprietor  of the patent in sufficient time to allow him to attend. He may ask relevant questions.
(2)  The request shall contain:
(a)  particulars of the requester as provided in  Rule 41, paragraph 2(c);
(b)  sufficient identification of the European  patent application or European patent in question;
(c)  an indication of the facts in respect of  which evidence is to be taken;
(d)  particulars of the means of giving or  obtaining evidence;
(e)  a statement establishing a prima facie  case for fearing that it might subsequently  become more difficult or impossible to take  evidence.
(3)  The request shall not be deemed to have  been filed until the prescribed fee has been  paid.
(4)  The decision on the request and any  resulting taking of evidence shall be incumbent  upon the department of the European Patent  Office which would have to take the decision  liable to be affected by the facts to be established. The provisions with regard to the taking  of evidence in proceedings before the European Patent Office shall apply.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 124   Minutes of oral proceedings and of taking of  evidence
(1)  Minutes of oral proceedings and of the taking of evidence shall be drawn up, containing  the essentials of the oral proceedings or of the  taking of evidence, the relevant statements  made by the parties, the testimony of the parties, witnesses or experts and the result of any  inspection.
(2)  The minutes of the testimony of a witness,  expert or party shall be read out, submitted to  him, so that he may examine them or, where  they are recorded by technical means, played  back to him, unless he waives this right. It shall  be noted in the minutes that this formality has  been carried out and that the person who gave  the testimony approved the minutes. If his  approval is not given, his objections shall be  noted. It is not necessary to play back the  minutes or to obtain approval of them if the  testimony has been recorded verbatim and  directly using technical means.
(3)130 The minutes shall be authenticated by the  employee responsible for drawing them up and  by the employee who conducted the oral  proceedings or taking of evidence, either by  their signature or by any other appropriate  means.
(4)  The parties shall be provided with a copy  of the minutes.
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).

Implementing Regulations

Rule 125131   General provisions
(1)  The European Patent Office shall, as a  matter of course, notify those concerned of  decisions and summonses, and of any notice or  other communication from which a time limit is  reckoned, or of which those concerned must be  notified under the Convention, or of which  notification has been ordered by the President  of the European Patent Office. Any notification  to be made shall take the form of the original  document, a copy thereof certified by or bearing  the seal of the European Patent Office, a  computer print-out bearing such seal or an  electronic document containing such seal or  otherwise certified.  Copies  of  documents  emanating from the parties themselves shall not  require such certification.
(2)  Notification shall be made:
(a)  by postal services in accordance with  Rule 126;
(b)  by means of electronic communication in  accordance with Rule 127;
(c)  by delivery on the premises of the European  Patent  Office  in  accordance  with  Rule 128; or
(d)  by public notice in accordance with  Rule 129.
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Notification through the central industrial  property office of a Contracting State shall be  made in accordance with the law applicable to  that office in national proceedings.
(4)  Where a document has reached the addressee, if the European Patent Office is  unable to prove that it has been duly notified, or  if provisions relating to its notification have not  been observed, the document shall be deemed  to have been notified on the date established by  the European Patent Office as the date of  receipt.
Rule 126132   Notification by postal services
(1)133 All notifications by postal services shall  be by registered letter.134
(2)  Where  notification  is  effected  in  accordance with paragraph 1, the letter shall be  deemed to be delivered to the addressee on the  tenth day following its handover to the postal  service provider, unless it has failed to reach  the addressee or has reached him at a later  date; in the event of any dispute, it shall be  incumbent on the European Patent Office to  establish that the letter has reached its  destination or to establish the date on which the  letter was delivered to the addressee, as the  case may be.
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).
See notice from the EPO of 16.06.2019 (OJ EPO  2019, A57).
See decision of the Enlarged Board of Appeal G 1/14  (Annex I).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Notification in accordance with paragraph  1 shall be deemed to have been effected even  if acceptance of the letter has been refused.
(4)  To the extent that notification by postal  services is not covered by paragraphs 1 to 3, the law of the State in which the notification is  made shall apply.
Rule 127135   Notification by means of electronic  communication
(1)  Notification may be effected by means of  electronic communication as determined by the  President of the European Patent Office and  under the conditions laid down by him.
(2)  Where notification is effected by means of  electronic  communication,  the  electronic  document shall be deemed to be delivered to  the addressee on the tenth day following its  transmission, unless it has failed to reach its  destination or has reached its destination at a  later date; in the event of any dispute, it shall be  incumbent on the European Patent Office to  establish that the electronic document has  reached its destination or to establish the date  on which it reached its destination, as the case  may be.
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).
See decision of the President of the EPO of  11.03.2015 concerning the pilot project to introduce  new means of electronic communication in EPO  proceedings (OJ EPO 2015, A28).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 128   Notification by delivery by hand
Notification may be effected on the premises of  the European Patent Office by delivery by hand  of the document to the addressee, who shall on  delivery acknowledge its receipt. Notification  shall be deemed to have been effected even if  the addressee refuses to accept the document  or to acknowledge receipt thereof.
Rule 129   Public notification
(1)136 If the address of the addressee cannot be  established, or if notification in accordance with  Rule 126, paragraph 1, has proved to be  impossible even after a second attempt, notification shall be effected by public notice.
(2)137 The President of the European Patent  Office shall determine how the public notice is  to be given and the beginning of the period of  one month on expiry of which the document  shall be deemed to have been notified.
Rule 130   Notification to representatives
(1)  If a representative has been appointed,  notifications shall be addressed to him.
(2)  If several representatives have been  appointed for a single party, notification to any  one of them shall be sufficient.
(3)  If several parties have a common representative, notification to the common representative shall be sufficient.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 131   Calculation of periods
(1)  Periods shall be laid down in terms of full  years, months, weeks or days.
(2)  Computation shall start on the day following the day on which the relevant event  occurred, the event being either a procedural  step or the expiry of another period. Where the  procedural step is a notification, the relevant  event shall be the receipt of the document  notified, unless otherwise provided.
(3)  When a period is expressed as one year  or a certain number of years, it shall expire in  the relevant subsequent year in the month having the same name and on the day having the  same number as the month and the day on  which the said event occurred; if the relevant  subsequent month has no day with the same  number, the period shall expire on the last day  of that month.
(4)  When a period is expressed as one month  or a certain number of months, it shall expire in  the relevant subsequent month on the day  which has the same number as the day on  which the said event occurred; if the relevant  subsequent month has no day with the same  number, the period shall expire on the last day  of that month.
(5)  When a period is expressed as one week  or a certain number of weeks, it shall expire in  the relevant subsequent week on the day having the same name as the day on which the  said event occurred.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 132   Periods specified by the European Patent  Office
(1)  Where the Convention or these Implementing Regulations refer to "a period to be  specified", this period shall be specified by the  European Patent Office.
(2)  Unless otherwise provided, a period specified by the European Patent Office shall be neither less than two months nor more than four  months; in certain circumstances it may be up  to six months. In special cases, the period may  be extended upon request, presented before  the expiry of such period.
Rule 133138   Late receipt of documents
(1)139 A  document  received  late  at  the  European Patent Office shall be deemed to  have been received in due time if it was  delivered to a recognised postal service  provider in due time before expiry of the period  in accordance with the conditions laid down by  the President of the European Patent Office,  unless the document was received later than  three months after expiry of the period.
(2)  Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis  to any period where transactions are carried out  with the competent authority in accordance with  Article 75, paragraphs 1(b) or 2(b).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 134140   Extension of periods
(1)141 If a period expires on a day on which one  of the filing offices of the European Patent  Office under Rule 35, paragraph 1, is not open  for receipt of documents or on which, for  reasons other than those referred to in paragraph 2, mail is not delivered there, the period  shall extend to the first day thereafter on which  all the filing offices are open for receipt of  documents and on which mail is delivered. The  first sentence shall apply mutatis mutandis if  documents filed by one of the means of  electronic communication permitted by the  President of the European Patent Office under  Rule 2, paragraph 1, cannot be received.
(2)  If a period expires on a day on which there  is a general dislocation in the delivery or transmission of mail in a Contracting State, the  period shall extend to the first day following the  end of the interval of dislocation for parties  which are resident in the State concerned or  have appointed representatives with a place of  business in that State. Where the State concerned is the State in which the European Patent Office is located, this provision shall apply  to all parties and their representatives. This  paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the  period referred to in Rule 37, paragraph 2.
See notice from the EPO of 30.03.2015 (OJ EPO  2015, A36).
See notice from the EPO of 18.01.2018 concerning  the safeguards available under the EPC and the PCT  in case of unavailability of means of electronic  communication (OJ EPO 2018, A25).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis where acts are performed with the competent authority in accordance with Article 75, paragraphs 1(b) or 2(b).
(4)  The date of commencement and the end  of any dislocation under paragraph 2 shall be  published by the European Patent Office.
(5)  Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 to 4, a  party concerned may produce evidence that on  any of the ten days preceding the day of expiry  of a period the delivery or transmission of mail  was  dislocated  due  to  an  exceptional  occurrence such as a natural disaster, war, civil disorder, a general breakdown in any of the  means of electronic communication permitted  by the President of the European Patent Office  under Rule 2, paragraph 1, or other like  reasons affecting the locality where the party or  his representative resides or has his place of  business. If the evidence produced satisfies the  European Patent Office, a document received  late shall be deemed to have been received in  due time, provided that the mailing or the  transmission was effected at the latest on the  fifth day after the end of the dislocation.
Rule 135   Further processing
(1)  Further  processing  under  Article 121,  paragraph 1, shall be requested by payment of  the prescribed fee within two months of the  communication concerning either the failure to  observe a time limit or a loss of rights. The  omitted act shall be completed within the period  for making the request.

Implementing Regulations
(2)142 Further processing shall be ruled out in  respect of the periods referred to in Article 121,  paragraph 4, and of the periods under Rule 6, paragraph 1, Rule 16, paragraph 1(a), Rule 31,  paragraph 2, Rule 36, paragraph 2, Rule 40,  paragraph 3,  Rule 51,  paragraphs 2  to 5, Rule 52, paragraphs 2 and 3, Rules 55, 56, 58, 59, 62a, 63, 64, Rule 112, paragraph 2, and  Rule 164, paragraphs 1 and 2.
(3)  The department competent to decide on  the omitted act shall decide on the request for  further processing.
Rule 136   Re-establishment of rights
(1)  Any request for re-establishment of rights  under Article 122, paragraph 1, shall be filed in  writing within two months of the removal of the  cause of non-compliance with the period, but at  the latest within one year of expiry of the unobserved time limit. However, a request for  re-establishment of rights in respect of any of  the periods specified in Article 87, paragraph 1, and in Article 112a, paragraph 4, shall be filed  within two months of expiry of that period. The  request for re-establishment of rights shall not  be deemed to have been filed until the prescribed fee has been paid.
(2)  The request shall state the grounds on  which it is based and shall set out the facts on  which it relies. The omitted act shall be completed within the relevant period for filing the  request according to paragraph 1.
(3)  Re-establishment of rights shall be ruled  out in respect of any period for which further  processing under Article 121 is available and in  respect of the period for requesting re-establishment of rights.
See notice from the EPO of 10.06.2014 (OJ EPO  2014, A70).

Implementing Regulations
(4)  The department competent to decide on  the omitted act shall decide on the request for  re-establishment of rights.

Rule 137143, 144   Amendment of the European patent  application
(1)  Before receiving the European search  report, the applicant may not amend the  description, claims or drawings of a European  patent application unless otherwise provided.
(2)  Together with any comments, corrections  or amendments made in response to communications by the European Patent Office under  Rule 70a, paragraph 1 or 2, or Rule 161, paragraph 1, the applicant may amend the description, claims and drawings of his own volition.
(3)  No further amendment may be made without the consent of the Examining Division.
(4)  When filing any amendments referred to in  paragraphs 1 to 3, the applicant shall identify  them and indicate the basis for them in the  application as filed. If the Examining Division  notes a failure to meet either requirement, it  may request the correction of this deficiency  within a period of one month.

Implementing Regulations
(5)  Amended claims may not relate to  unsearched subject-matter which does not  combine with the originally claimed invention or  group of inventions to form a single general  inventive concept. Nor may they relate to  subject-matter not searched in accordance with  Rule 62a or Rule 63.
Rule 138145   Different claims, description and drawings  for different States
If the European Patent Office is informed of the  existence of a prior right under Article 139,  paragraph 2, the European patent application or  European patent may, for such State or States,  contain claims and, where appropriate, a  description and drawings which are different  from those for the other designated States.
Rule 139146   Correction of errors in documents filed with  the European Patent Office
Linguistic errors, errors of transcription and mistakes in any document filed with the European  Patent Office may be corrected on request.  However, if the request for such correction concerns the description, claims or drawings, the  correction must be obvious in the sense that it  is immediately evident that nothing else would  have been intended than what is offered as the  correction.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 140147   Correction of errors in decisions
In decisions of the European Patent Office, only  linguistic errors, errors of transcription and  obvious mistakes may be corrected.

Rule 141148   Information on prior art
(1)  An applicant claiming priority within the  meaning of Article 87 shall file a copy of the  results of any search carried out by the  authority with which the previous application  was filed together with the European patent  application, in the case of a Euro-PCT application on entry into the European phase,  or without delay after such results have been  made available to him.
(2)149 The copy referred to in paragraph 1 shall  be deemed to be duly filed if it is available to  the European Patent Office and to be included  in the file of the European patent application  under the conditions determined by the President of the European Patent Office.
See notices from the EPO of 28.07.2010 (OJ EPO  2010, 410) and 04.06.2019 (OJ EPO 2019, A56).

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2, the European Patent Office may invite the  applicant to provide, within a period of two  months, information on prior art within the  meaning of Article 124, paragraph 1.

Rule 142150   Interruption of proceedings
(1)  Proceedings before the European Patent  Office shall be interrupted:
(a)  in the event of the death or legal incapacity of the applicant for or proprietor of a European patent or of the person authorised by  national law to act on his behalf. To the extent  that the above events do not affect the  authorisation of a representative appointed  under Article 134, proceedings shall be interrupted only on application by such representative;
(b)  in the event of the applicant for or proprietor of a patent, as a result of some action taken  against his property, being prevented by legal  reasons from continuing the proceedings;
(c)  in the event of the death or legal incapacity of the representative of an applicant for or  proprietor of a patent, or of his being prevented  for legal reasons resulting from action taken  against his property from continuing the proceedings.

Implementing Regulations
(2)151  When, in the cases referred to in  paragraph 1(a) or (b), the European Patent  Office has been informed of the identity of the  person authorised to continue the proceedings,  it shall notify such person and, where  applicable, any third party, that the proceedings  will be resumed as from a specified date. If, three years after the publication of the date of  interruption in the European Patent Bulletin, the  European Patent Office has not been informed  of the identity of the person authorised to  continue the proceedings, it may set a date on  which it intends to resume the proceedings of  its own motion.
(3)  In the case referred to in paragraph 1(c), the proceedings shall be resumed when the  European Patent Office has been informed of  the appointment of a new representative of the  applicant or when the Office has informed the  other parties of the appointment of a new representative of the proprietor of the patent. If,  three months after the beginning of the interruption of the proceedings, the European Patent  Office has not been informed of the appointment of a new representative, it shall communicate to the applicant for or proprietor of the patent:
(a)  where Article 133, paragraph 2, is applicable, that the European patent application will be  deemed to be withdrawn or the European patent will be revoked if the information is not  submitted within two months of this communication; or
(b)  otherwise, that the proceedings will be resumed with the applicant for or proprietor of  the patent as from the notification of this  communication.
See notice from the EPO of 29.05.2020 (OJ EPO  2020, A76).

Implementing Regulations
(4)  Any periods, other than those for requesting examination and paying renewal fees, in  force at the date of interruption of the proceedings, shall begin again as from the day on  which the proceedings are resumed. If such  date is less than two months before the end of  the period within which the request for examination must be filed, such a request may be filed  within two months of such date.

Rule 143152   Entries in the European Patent Register
(1)  The European Patent Register shall contain the following entries:
(a)  number of the European patent application;
(b)  date of filing of the application;
(c)  title of the invention;
(d)  classification symbols assigned to the  application;
(e)  the Contracting States designated;
(f)  particulars of the applicant for or proprietor  of the patent as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(c);
(g)  family name, given names and address of  the inventor designated by the applicant for or  proprietor of the patent, unless he has waived  his right to be mentioned under Rule 20, paragraph 1;

Implementing Regulations
(h)  particulars of the representative of the  applicant for or proprietor of the patent as provided in Rule 41, paragraph 2(d); in the case of  several representatives only the particulars of  the representative first named, followed by the  words "and others" and, in the case of an association referred to in Rule 152, paragraph 11,  only the name and address of the association;
(i)  priority data (date, State and file number of the previous application);
(j)  in the event of a division of the application,  the numbers of all the divisional applications;
(k)  in the case of a divisional application or a  new  application  under  Article 61,  paragraph 1(b), the information referred to in  sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (i) with regard to  the earlier application;
(l)  date of publication of the application and,  where appropriate, date of the separate publication of the European search report;
(m) date of filing of the request for examination;
(n)  date on which the application is refused,  withdrawn or deemed to be withdrawn;
(o)  date of publication of the mention of the  grant of the European patent;
(p)  date of lapse of the European patent in a  Contracting State during the opposition period  and, where appropriate, pending a final decision on opposition;
(q)  date of filing opposition;
(r)  date and purport of the decision on opposition;

Implementing Regulations
(s)  dates of stay and resumption of proceedings in the cases referred to in Rules 14 and 78;
(t)  dates of interruption and resumption of  proceedings in the case referred to in Rule 142;
(u)  date of re-establishment of rights where an  entry has been made under sub-paragraphs (n) or (r);
(v)  the filing of a request for conversion under  Article 135, paragraph 3;
(w) rights and transfer of such rights relating to  an application or a European patent where  these Implementing Regulations provide that  they shall be recorded.
(x)  date and purport of the decision on the  request for limitation or revocation of the European patent;
(y)  date and purport of the decision of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal on the petition for  review.
(2)153 The President of the European Patent  Office may decide that entries other than those  referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made in the  European Patent Register.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 144154   Parts of the file excluded from inspection
The parts of the file excluded from inspection  under Article 128, paragraph 4, shall be:
(a)  the documents relating to the exclusion of  or objections to members of the Boards of  Appeal or of the Enlarged Board of Appeal;
(b)  draft decisions and notices, and all other  documents, used for the preparation of decisions and notices, which are not communicated  to the parties;
(c)  the designation of the inventor, if he has  waived his right to be mentioned under Rule 20,  paragraph 1;
(d)  any other document excluded from inspection by the President of the European Patent  Office on the ground that such inspection would  not serve the purpose of informing the public  about the European patent application or the  European patent.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 145155   Procedures for the inspection of files
(1)  Inspection of the files of European patent  applications and patents shall either be of the  original document, or of copies thereof, or of  technical means of storage if the files are stored  in this way.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office  shall  determine  all  file-inspection  arrangements, including the circumstances in  which an administrative fee is payable.
Rule 146   Communication of information contained in  the files
Subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 128, paragraphs 1 to 4, and in Rule 144, the European Patent Office may, upon request,  communicate information concerning any file  relating to a European patent application or  European patent, subject to the payment of an  administrative fee. However, the European Patent Office may refer to the option of file inspection where it deems this to be appropriate in  view of the quantity of information to be supplied.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 147156, 157   Constitution, maintenance and preservation  of files
(1)  The  European  Patent  Office  shall  constitute, maintain and preserve files relating  to all European patent applications and patents  in electronic form.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office shall determine all necessary technical  and administrative arrangements relating to the  management of electronic files according to  paragraph 1.
(3)  Documents incorporated in an electronic  file shall be considered to be originals. The  initial paper version of such documents shall  only be destroyed after expiry of at least five  years. This preservation period starts at the end  of the year in which the document was  incorporated in the electronic file.
(4)  Any files shall be preserved for at least  five years from the end of the year in which:
(a)  the application is refused or withdrawn or  is deemed to be withdrawn;
(b)  the patent is revoked by the European  Patent Office; or
See decision of the President of the EPO of  11.03.2015 concerning the pilot project to introduce  new means of electronic communication in EPO  proceedings (OJ EPO 2015, A28).
See notice from the EPO (OJ EPO 2016, A90).

Implementing Regulations
(c)  the patent or the corresponding protection  under Article 63, paragraph 2, lapses in the last  of the designated States.
(5)  Without prejudice to paragraph 4, files relating to applications which have given rise to  divisional applications under Article 76 or new  applications under Article 61, paragraph 1(b),  shall be preserved for at least the same period  as the files relating to any one of these last  applications. The same shall apply to files  relating to any resulting European patents.

Rule 148   Communications between the European  Patent Office and the authorities of the  Contracting States
(1)  Communications between the European  Patent Office and the central industrial property  offices of the Contracting States which arise out  of the application of this Convention shall be  effected directly between these authorities.  Communications between the European Patent  Office and the courts or other authorities of the  Contracting States may be effected through the  intermediary of the said central industrial property offices.
(2)  Expenditure in respect of communications  under paragraph 1 shall be borne by the authority making the communications, which shall be  exempt from fees.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 149   Inspection of files by or via courts or  authorities of the Contracting States
(1)  Inspection of the files of European patent  applications or of European patents by courts or  authorities of the Contracting States shall be of  the original documents or of copies thereof;  Rule 145 shall not apply.
(2)  Courts or Public Prosecutors' offices of the  Contracting States may, in the course of their  proceedings, communicate to third parties files  or copies thereof transmitted to them by the  European Patent Office. Such communications  shall be effected in accordance with Article 128 and shall not be subject to any fee.
(3)  The European Patent Office shall, when  transmitting the files, draw attention to the  restrictions which may, under Article 128, paragraphs 1 and 4, apply to file inspection by third  parties.
Rule 150   Procedure for letters rogatory
(1)  Each Contracting State shall designate a  central authority to receive letters rogatory  issued by the European Patent Office and to  transmit them to the court or authority competent to execute them.
(2)  The European Patent Office shall draw up  letters rogatory in the language of the competent court or authority or shall attach to such letters rogatory a translation into that language.
(3)  Subject to paragraphs 5 and 6, the competent court or authority shall apply national law  as to the procedures to be followed in executing  such requests and, in particular, as to the  appropriate measures of compulsion.

Implementing Regulations
(4)  If the court or authority to which the letters  rogatory are transmitted is not competent to  execute them, the letters rogatory shall be sent  forthwith to the central authority referred to in  paragraph 1. That authority shall transmit the  letters rogatory either to the competent court or  authority in that State, or to the European Patent Office where no court or authority is competent in that State.
(5)  The European Patent Office shall be  informed of the time when, and the place  where, the enquiry or other legal measure is to  take place and shall inform the parties,  witnesses and experts concerned.
(6)  If so requested by the European Patent  Office, the competent court or authority shall  permit the attendance of members of the  department concerned and allow them to  question any person giving evidence either  directly or through the competent court or  authority.
(7)  The execution of letters rogatory shall not  give rise to any reimbursement of fees or costs  of any nature. Nevertheless, the State in which  letters rogatory are executed has the right to  require the Organisation to reimburse any fees  paid to experts or interpreters and the costs  arising from the procedure under paragraph 6.

Implementing Regulations
(8)  If the law applied by the competent court  or authority obliges the parties to secure evidence and the competent court or authority is  not able itself to execute the letters rogatory,  that court or authority may, with the consent of  the European Patent Office, appoint a suitable  person to do so. When seeking such consent,  the competent court or authority shall indicate  the approximate costs which would result from this procedure. If the European Patent Office  gives its consent, the Organisation shall reimburse any costs incurred; otherwise, the  Organisation shall not be liable for such costs.

Rule 151158   Appointment of a common representative
(1)  If there is more than one applicant and the  request for grant of a European patent does not  name a common representative, the applicant  first named in the request shall be deemed to  be the common representative. However, if one  of the applicants is obliged to appoint a professional representative, this representative shall  be deemed to be the common representative,  unless the applicant first named has appointed  a professional representative. The same shall  apply to third parties acting in common in filing  a notice of opposition or intervention and to joint  proprietors of a European patent.

Implementing Regulations
(2)  If the European patent application is transferred to more than one person, and such persons have not appointed a common representative, paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. If such application is not possible, the European  Patent Office shall invite such persons to appoint a common representative within a period  to be specified. If this invitation is not complied  with, the European Patent Office shall appoint  the common representative.
Rule 152   Authorisations
(1)159  The President of the European Patent  Office shall determine the cases in which a  signed  authorisation  shall  be  filed  by  representatives acting before the European  Patent Office.
(2)  Where a representative fails to file such an  authorisation, the European Patent Office shall  invite him to do so within a period to be specified. The authorisation may cover one or more  European patent applications or European patents and shall be filed in the corresponding  number of copies.
(3)  Where the requirements of Article 133,  paragraph 2, have not been satisfied, the same  period shall be specified for the appointment of  a representative and the filing of the authorisation.
See decision of the President of the EPO of  16.04.2012 concerning notification of representation  changes by professional representatives (OJ EPO  2012, 352).

Implementing Regulations
(4)160 A general authorisation may be filed enabling a representative to act in respect of all the  patent transactions of a party. A single copy  shall suffice.
(5)  The President of the European Patent  Office may determine the form and content of:
(a)  an authorisation relating to the representation of persons under Article 133, paragraph 2;
(b)  a general authorisation.
(6)  If a required authorisation is not filed in  due time, any procedural steps taken by the  representative, other than the filing of a European patent application, shall be deemed not to  have been taken, without prejudice to any other  legal consequences provided for by this Convention.
(7)  Paragraphs 2 and 4 shall apply to the  withdrawal of an authorisation.
(8)  A representative shall be deemed to be  authorised until the termination of his authorisation has been communicated to the European  Patent Office.
(9)  Unless it expressly provides otherwise, an  authorisation shall not terminate vis-à-vis the European Patent Office upon the death of the  person who gave it.
(10)161  If a party appoints several representatives, they may act either jointly or singly,  notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in  the communication of their appointment or in the  authorisation.

Implementing Regulations
(11)162  The authorisation of an association of representatives shall be deemed to be an authorisation of any representative who can provide  evidence that he practises within that association.
Rule 153   Attorney-client evidentiary privilege163
(1)164 Where advice is sought from a professional representative in his capacity as such, all  communications between the professional representative and his client or any other person,  relating to that purpose and falling under Article 2 of the Regulation on discipline for professional representatives, are permanently privileged from disclosure in proceedings before the  European Patent Office, unless such privilege is  expressly waived by the client.
(2)  Such privilege from disclosure shall apply,  in particular, to any communication or document relating to:
(a)  the assessment of the patentability of an  invention;
(b)  the preparation or prosecution of a European patent application;
See decision of the President of the EPO of  21.11.2013 concerning the responsibilities of the Legal  Division (OJ EPO 2013, 600).

Implementing Regulations
(c)  any opinion relating to the validity, scope  of protection or infringement of a European patent or a European patent application.
Rule 154165   Amendment of the list of professional  representatives
(1)166 The entry of a professional representative  shall be deleted from the list of professional  representatives if he so requests or if, despite a  reminder, he fails to pay the applicable annual  subscription to the Institute within five months  from either:
(a)  1 January for members on the list at that  date; or
(b)  the date of entry for members entered on  the list after 1 January of the year for which the  subscription is due.
(2)  Without prejudice to any disciplinary  measures taken under Article 134a, paragraph 1(c), the entry of a professional representative may be deleted ex officio only:
(a)  in the event of his death or legal incapacity;
(b)  where he is no longer a national of one of  the Contracting States, unless he was granted  an  exemption  under  Article 134,  paragraph 7(a);
(c)  where he no longer has his place of business or employment within one of the Contracting States.

Implementing Regulations
(3)  Any person entered on the list of professional representatives under Article 134, paragraphs (2) or (3), whose entry has been deleted  shall, upon request, be re-entered on that list if  the conditions for deletion no longer exist.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 155   Filing and transmission of the request for  conversion
(1)  The request for conversion referred to in  Article 135, paragraph 1(a) or (b), shall be filed  within three months of the withdrawal of the  European patent application, or of the communication that the application is deemed to be  withdrawn, or of the decision refusing the application or revoking the European patent. The  effect of the European patent application under  Article 66 shall lapse if the request is not filed in  due time.
(2)  When transmitting the request for conversion to the central industrial property offices of  the Contracting States specified in the request,  the central industrial property office concerned  or the European Patent Office shall attach to  the request a copy of the file relating to the  European patent application or European patent.
(3)167 Article 135, paragraph 4, shall apply if the  request for conversion referred to in Article 135,  paragraphs 1(a) and (2), is not transmitted before the expiry of a period of twenty months  from the date of filing or, if priority has been  claimed, the date of priority.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 156   Information to the public in the event of  conversion
(1)  The documents accompanying the request  for conversion under Rule 155, paragraph 2, shall be made available to the public by the  central industrial property office under the same  conditions and to the same extent as documents relating to national proceedings.
(2)  The printed specification of the national  patent resulting from the conversion of a European patent application shall mention that  application.

Implementing Regulations

Rule 157168   The European Patent Office as a receiving  Office
(1)  The European Patent Office shall be competent to act as a receiving Office within the  meaning of the PCT if the applicant is a resident  or national of a Contracting State to this  Convention and to the PCT. Without prejudice to  paragraph 3, if the applicant chooses the  European Patent Office as a receiving Office, the  international application shall be filed directly with  the  European  Patent  Office.  Article 75,  paragraph 2, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2)  Where the European Patent Office acts as  a receiving Office under the PCT, the international application shall be filed in English,  French or German. The President of the European Patent Office may determine that the  international application and any related item  shall be filed in more than one copy.
(3)  If an international application is filed with  an authority of a Contracting State for transmittal to the European Patent Office as the receiving Office, the Contracting State shall ensure  that the application reaches the European Patent Office not later than two weeks before the  end of the thirteenth month from filing or, if priority is claimed, from the date of priority.

Implementing Regulations
(4)  The transmittal fee for the international  application shall be paid within one month of filing the application.
Rule 158   The European Patent Office as an  International Searching Authority or  International Preliminary Examining  Authority
(1)  In the case of Article 17, paragraph 3(a)  PCT, an additional international search fee shall  be paid for each further invention for which an  international search is to be carried out.
(2)  In the case of Article 34, paragraph 3(a)  PCT, an additional fee for international preliminary examination shall be paid for each further  invention for which the international preliminary  examination is to be carried out.
(3)169 Where an additional fee has been paid  under protest, the European Patent Office shall  examine the protest in accordance with  Rule 40.2(c) to (e) or Rule 68.3(c) to (e) PCT, subject to payment of the prescribed protest  fee. Further details concerning the procedure  shall be determined by the President of the  European Patent Office.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 159170   The European Patent Office as a designated  or elected Office – Requirements for entry  into the European phase
(1)  In respect of an international application  under Article 153, the applicant shall perform  the following acts within thirty-one months from  the date of filing of the application or, if priority  has been claimed, from the priority date:
(a)171 supply, where applicable, the translation  of the international application required under  Article 153, paragraph 4;
(b)  specify the application documents, as  originally filed or as amended, on which the  European grant procedure is to be based;
(c)  pay the filing fee provided for in Article 78,  paragraph 2;
(d)172, 173 pay the designation fee if the period  under Rule 39 has expired earlier;
(e)  pay the search fee, where a supplementary European search report has to be drawn  up;
(f)  file the request for examination provided  for in Article 94, if the period under Rule 70,  paragraph 1, has expired earlier;

Implementing Regulations
(g)  pay the renewal fee in respect of the third  year provided for in Article 86, paragraph 1, if the fee has fallen due earlier under Rule 51,  paragraph 1;
(h)  file, where applicable, the certificate of  exhibition referred to in Article 55, paragraph 2, and Rule 25.
(2)  The Examining Division shall be competent to take decisions of the European Patent  Office under Article 25, paragraph 2(a) PCT.
Rule 160174   Consequences of non-fulfilment of certain  requirements
(1)  If either the translation of the international  application or the request for examination is not  filed in due time, or if the filing fee, the search  fee or the designation fee is not paid in due  time, the European patent application shall be  deemed to be withdrawn.
(2)175 If the European Patent Office notes that  the application is deemed to be withdrawn  under paragraph 1, it shall communicate this to  the applicant. Rule 112, paragraph 2, shall  apply mutatis mutandis.

Implementing Regulations
Rule 161176   Amendment of the application
(1)  If the European Patent Office has acted as  the International Searching Authority and,  where a demand under Article 31 PCT was filed, also as the International Preliminary  Examining Authority for a Euro-PCT application,  it shall give the applicant the opportunity to  comment on the written opinion of the  International Searching Authority or the International Preliminary Examination Report and,  where appropriate, invite him to correct any  deficiencies noted in the written opinion or in  the  International  Preliminary  Examination  Report and to amend the description, claims  and drawings within a period of six months from  the respective communication. If the European  Patent Office has drawn up a supplementary  international search report, an invitation in  accordance with the first sentence shall be  issued in respect of the explanations given in  accordance with Rule 45bis.7(e) PCT. If the applicant does not comply with or comment on  an invitation in accordance with the first or  second sentence, the application shall be  deemed to be withdrawn.
(2)  Where the European Patent Office draws  up a supplementary European search report on  a Euro-PCT application, the application may be  amended once within a period of six months  from a communication informing the applicant  accordingly. The application as amended shall  serve as the basis for the supplementary  European search.
See notice from the EPO of 29.06.2010 concerning  communications under amended Rule 161 EPC  (OJ EPO 2010, 406).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 162177   Claims incurring fees
(1)  If the application documents on which the  European grant procedure is to be based comprise more than fifteen claims, claims fees shall  be paid for the sixteenth and each subsequent  claim as laid down in the Rules relating to Fees within the period under Rule 159, paragraph 1.
(2)178 If the claims fees are not paid in due time,  they may still be paid within the period under  Rule 161, paragraph 1 or paragraph 2, as the  case may be. If within this period amended  claims are filed, the claims fees due shall be  computed on the basis of such amended claims  and shall be paid within this period.
(3)  Any claims fees paid within the period  under paragraph 1 and in excess of those due  under paragraph 2, second sentence, shall be  refunded.
(4)  Where a claims fee is not paid in due time,  the claim concerned shall be deemed to be  abandoned.
See notice from the EPO of 16.12.2016 (OJ EPO  2016, A103).

Implementing Regulations
Rule 163   Examination of certain formal requirements  by the European Patent Office
(1)  Where the designation of the inventor  under Rule 19, paragraph 1, has not yet been  made within the period under Rule 159, paragraph 1, the European Patent Office shall invite  the applicant to make the designation within two  months.
(2)179 Where the priority of an earlier application  is claimed and the file number of the previous  application or the copy thereof provided for in  Rule 52, paragraph 1, and Rule 53 have not yet  been  submitted  within the period  under  Rule 159, paragraph 1, the European Patent  Office shall invite the applicant to furnish that  number or copy within two months. Rule 53,  paragraph 2, shall apply.
(3)180 Where, at the expiry of the period under  Rule 159, paragraph 1, a sequence listing complying with the standard provided for in the  Administrative Instructions under the PCT is not  available to the European Patent Office, the  applicant shall be invited to file a sequence listing complying with the rules laid down by the  President of the European Patent Office within  two months. Rule 30, paragraphs 2 and 3, shall  apply mutatis mutandis.
See decision of the President of the EPO of  18.10.2018 on the filing of priority documents (OJ EPO  2018, A78) and notice from the EPO of 22.02.2019  concerning priority document exchange via the WIPO  Digital Access Service (OJ EPO 2019, A27).

Implementing Regulations
(4)  Where, at the expiry of the period under  Rule 159, paragraph 1, the address, the nationality or the State in which his residence or principal place of business is located is missing in  respect of any applicant, the European Patent  Office shall invite the applicant to furnish these  indications within two months.
(5)  Where, at the expiry of the period under  Rule 159, paragraph 1, the requirements of  Article 133,  paragraph 2,  have  not  been  satisfied, the European Patent Office shall invite  the  applicant  to  appoint  a  professional  representative within two months.
(6)  If the deficiencies noted under paragraphs 1, 4 or 5 are not corrected in due time,  the European patent application shall be  refused.  If  the  deficiency  noted  under  paragraph 2 is not corrected in due time, the  right of priority shall be lost for the application.
Rule 164181   Unity of invention and further searches
(1)  If the European Patent Office considers  that the application documents which are to  serve as the basis for the supplementary European search do not comply with the requirement of unity of invention, it shall:
(a)  draw up a partial supplementary search  report on those parts of the application which  relate to the invention, or the group of inventions within the meaning of Article 82, first mentioned in the claims;
See notice from the EPO of 10.06.2014 (OJ EPO  2014, A70).

Implementing Regulations
(b)  inform  the  applicant  that,  for  the supplementary European search report to cover  the other inventions, a further search fee must  be paid, in respect of each invention involved,  within a period of two months; and
(c)  draw up the supplementary European  search report for the parts of the application  relating to inventions in respect of which search  fees have been paid.
(2)  If the supplementary European search  report is dispensed with and the Examining  Division considers that in the application  documents which are to serve as the basis for  examination an invention, or a group of  inventions within the meaning of Article 82, is claimed which was not searched by the European Patent Office in its capacity as International  Searching  Authority  or  Authority  specified  for  supplementary  international  search, the Examining Division shall:
(a)  inform the applicant that a search will be  performed in respect of any such invention for  which a search fee is paid within a period of two  months;
(b)  issue the results of any search performed  in accordance with paragraph (a) together with:
-  a  communication  under  Article  94,  paragraph 3, and Rule 71, paragraphs 1 and 2, in which it shall give the applicant the  opportunity to comment on these results and to  amend the description, claims and drawings, or
-  a communication under Rule 71, paragraph 3,
and

Implementing Regulations
(c)  where appropriate, in the communication  issued under paragraph (b), invite the applicant  to limit the application to one invention, or group  of inventions within the meaning of Article 82, for which a search report was drawn up by the  European Patent Office in its capacity either as  International Searching Authority or as Authority  specified  for  supplementary  international  search, or for which a search was performed in  accordance  with  the  procedure  under  paragraph (a).
(3)  In the procedure under paragraph 2(a), Rules 62a and 63 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(4)  Rule 62 and Rule 70, paragraph 2, shall  not apply to the results of any search performed  in accordance with paragraph 2.
(5)  Any fee paid under paragraphs 1 or 2 shall  be refunded if the applicant requests a refund  and the Examining Division finds that the communication under paragraphs 1(b) or 2(a) was  not justified.
Rule 165   The Euro-PCT application as conflicting  application under Article 54, paragraph 3
A Euro-PCT application shall be considered as  comprised in the state of the art under Article 54, paragraph 3, if in addition to the conditions laid down in Article 153, paragraph 3 or 4, the filing fee under Rule 159, paragraph 1(c) has been paid.

Contents
Art. 1  General
Art. 2  Fees provided for in the  Convention and in the  Implementing Regulations
Art. 3  Fees, expenses and prices laid  down by the President of the Office
Art. 4  Due date for fees
Art. 5  Payment of fees
Art. 6  Particulars concerning payments
Art. 7  Date to be considered as the date  on which payment is made
Art. 8  Insufficiency of the amount paid
Art. 9  Refund of search fees
Art. 10  Refund of the fee for a technical  opinion
Art. 11  Refund of examination fee
Art. 12  Refund of insignificant amounts
Art. 13  Termination of financial obligations
Art. 14  Reduction of fees
Art. 15  Entry into force

Rules relating to Fees
THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF THE  EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION,
HAVING REGARD to the European Patent  Convention and in particular Article 33, paragraph 2(d), thereof,
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RULES  RELATING TO FEES:
174 General
The following shall be levied in accordance with  the provisions contained in these Rules:
(a)  fees due to be paid to the European Patent Office (hereinafter referred to as the Office)  as provided for in the Convention and in the  Implementing Regulations and the fees and  expenses which the President of the Office lays  down pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1;
(b)  fees and expenses pursuant to the Patent  Cooperation Treaty (hereinafter referred to as  the PCT), the amounts of which may be fixed  by the Office.

Rules relating to Fees
175 Fees provided for in the Convention and in  the Implementing Regulations
(1)  The fees due to be paid to the Office  under Article 1, unless otherwise provided in  paragraph 2, shall be as follows:
(Article 78, paragraph 2)
(i) where the European patent application or, if  required, its translation (Article 14, paragraph 2)  is filed online in character-coded format, or,   in the case of an international application, if  within the 31-month period (Rule 159,  paragraph 1) the form for entry into the  European phase (EPO Form 1200) and the  international application or, if required, its  translation (Rule 159, paragraph 1(a)), and any  amendments for processing in the European  phase (Rule 159, paragraph 1(b)), are all filed  online in character-coded format4
See decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 11/18 of 12.12.2018 (OJ EPO 2019, A3) in  conjunction with notice from the EPO of 24.01.2019  concerning the application of these fee levels (OJ EPO  2019, A6).

Rules relating to Fees
(ii) where all documents referred to in item 1(i)  are filed online,5 but any one of them is filed in a  format other than character-coded format6
(iii) in all other cases7
for a European patent application comprising  more than 35 pages (not counting pages  forming part of a sequence listing) (Rule 38,  paragraph 2)
in the case of a divisional application filed in  respect of any earlier application which is itself  a divisional application (Rule 38, paragraph 4)
- fee for a divisional application of second  generation
- fee for a divisional application of third  generation

Rules relating to Fees
- fee for a divisional application of fourth  generation
- fee for a divisional application of fifth or any  subsequent generation
- a European or supplementary European  search on an application filed on or after 1 July  2005 (Article 78, paragraph 2, Rule 62, Rule 64,  paragraph 1, Article 153, paragraph 7,  Rule 164, paragraphs 110 and 2)
- a European or supplementary European  search on an application filed before 1 July  2005 (Article 78, paragraph 2, Rule 64,  paragraph 1, Article 153, paragraph 7)
- an international search (Rule 16.1 PCT, Rule  40bis PCT in conjunction with Rule 20.5bis  PCT,11 and Rule 158, paragraph 1)12
See notice from the EPO of 14.06.2020 concerning  new Rule 20.5bis PCT on the correction of erroneous  filings in the procedures before the EPO (OJ EPO  2020, A81).

Rules relating to Fees
- a supplementary international search  (Rule 45bis.3(a) PCT)13
for one or more Contracting States (Article 79,  paragraph 2) in respect of an application filed  on or after 1 April 2009
For the European patent application  (Article 86, paragraph 1), calculated in each  case from the date of filing of the application
- for the 3rd year
- for the 4th year
- for the 5th year
- for the 6th year
- for the 7th year
- for the 8th year
- for the 9th year
- for the 10th and each subsequent year

Rules relating to Fees
for belated payment of a renewal fee for the  European patent application (Rule 51,  paragraph 2)
(Article 94, paragraph 1) in respect of
- an application filed before 1 July 2005
- an application filed on or after 1 July 2005
- an international application filed on or after  1 July 2005 for which no supplementary  European search report is drawn up  (Article 153, paragraph 7)
including fee for publication of the European  patent specification (Rule 71, paragraph 3), in  respect of an application filed on or after  1 April 2009
Amended by decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 17/17 of 13.12.2017 (OJ EPO 2018, A4), which  entered into force on 01.04.2018. See decision of the  Administrative Council CA/D 11/18 of 12.12.2018  (OJ EPO 2019, A3) in conjunction with notice from the  EPO of 24.01.2019 concerning the application of these  fee levels (OJ EPO 2019, A6).

Rules relating to Fees
(i) where on or after 1 April 2018 all  amendments and corrections of the application,  if any, and the translation of the claims are filed  online in character-coded format17
(ii) in all other cases
- where the fee for grant is paid between 1 April  2018 and [date to be set by the President of the  Office]18
- where the fee for grant is paid on or after [date  to be set by the President of the Office]19
a new specification of the European patent  (Rule 82, paragraph 2, Rule 95, paragraph 3)
for late performance of the acts required to  maintain the European patent in amended form  (Rule 82, paragraph 3, Rule 95, paragraph 3)
(Article 99, paragraph 1, Article 105,  paragraph 2)

Rules relating to Fees
(Article 105a, paragraph 1)
- request for limitation
- request for revocation
(Article 108) for an appeal filed
- by a natural person or an entity referred to in  Rule 6, paragraphs 4 and 5
- by any other entity
(Article 112a, paragraph 4)
(Rule 135, paragraph 1)
- in the event of late payment of a fee
- in the event of late performance of the acts  required under Rule 71, paragraph 3
- other cases
See notice from the EPO of 18.12.2017 concerning  the reduced fee for appeal (Article 108 EPC) (OJ EPO  2018, A5).
See the possibility of reimbursement of the appeal  fee (Rule 103 EPC) amended by decision of the  Administrative Council CA/D 14/19 of 12.12.2019  (OJ EPO 2020, A5), which entered into force on  01.04.2020.

Rules relating to Fees
(Rule 136, paragraph 1, Rule 26bis.3(d) PCT,  Rule 49ter.2(d) PCT, Rule 49.6(d)(i) PCT)
(Article 135, paragraph 3, Article 140)
(Rule 30, paragraph 3)
(Rule 45, paragraph 1, Rule 71, paragraph 4,  Rule 162, paragraph 1) in respect of an  application filed on or after 1 April 2009
- for the 16th and each subsequent claim up to  the limit of 50
- for the 51st and each subsequent claim
(Rule 88, paragraph 3)
(Rule 123, paragraph 3)

Rules relating to Fees
(Rule 157, paragraph 4)
- where the PCT request (PCT/RO/101) and the  international application are filed with the Office  as receiving Office online in character-coded  format25
- in all other cases26
(Rule 58 PCT and Rule 158, paragraph 2)27
(Article 25)
See decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 13/19 of 12.12.2019 concerning the reduction of  this fee in favour of nationals of certain states  (OJ EPO 2020, A4).

Rules relating to Fees
(Rule 158, paragraph 3, Rule 40.2(e) PCT,  Rule 68.3(e) PCT)
(Rule 45bis.6(c) PCT)
(2)30 For European patent applications filed  before 1 April 2009 and international applications which entered the regional phase  before that date, the amount of the fees  specified in Article 2, item 3, item 3a, item 7 and  item 15 of the Rules relating to Fees as in force  until 31 March 2009 shall be as follows:
for each contracting state designated  (Article 79, paragraph 2), designation fees  being deemed paid for all contracting states  upon payment of seven times the amount of  this fee
for the Swiss Confederation and the Principality  of Liechtenstein

Rules relating to Fees
including fee for printing the European patent  specification (Rule 71, paragraph 3), where the  application documents to be printed comprise:
(i) on or after 1 April 2018 all amendments and  corrections of the application, if any, and the  translation of the claims are filed online in  character-coded format32
(ii) in all other cases
- where the fee for grant is paid between 1 April  2018 and [date to be set by the President of the  Office]33
- where the fee for grant is paid on or after [date  to be set by the President of the Office]34
See decision of the Administrative Council  CA/D 11/18 of 12.12.2018 (OJ EPO 2019, A3) in  conjunction with notice from the EPO of 24.01.2019  concerning the application of these fees (OJ EPO  2019, A6).

Rules relating to Fees
for the sixteenth and each subsequent claim  (Rule 45, paragraph 1, Rule 71, paragraph 4,  Rule 162, paragraph 1)
(3)35 The President of the Office shall determine  the formats referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, and may specify the conditions  under which a document referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, is deemed to have been  filed online in character-coded format.
(4)36 Fee levels which relate to the use of a  means of electronic communication or a format  referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not apply until a date set by the President  of the Office.

Rules relating to Fees
176 Fees, expenses and prices laid down by the  President of the Office
(1)  The President of the Office shall lay down  the amount of the administrative fees provided  for in the Implementing Regulations and, where  appropriate, the amount of the fees and expenses for any services rendered by the Office  other than those specified in Article 2.
(2)  He shall also lay down the prices of the  publications referred to in Articles 93, 98, 103 and 129 of the Convention.
(3)  The amounts of the fees provided for in  Article 2 and of the fees and expenses laid  down in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be  published in the Official Journal and on the  website of the European Patent Office.
177 Due date for fees
(1)  Fees in respect of which the due date is  not specified in the provisions of the Convention  or of the PCT or of the Implementing Regulations thereto shall be due on the date of receipt  of the request for the service incurring the fee  concerned.
(2)  The President of the Office may decide not  to make services within the meaning of paragraph 1 dependent upon the advance payment  of the corresponding fee.

Rules relating to Fees
178 Payment of fees
(1)39 The fees due to the Office shall be paid in  euro by payment or transfer to a bank account  held by the Office.
(2)40 The President of the Office may allow  other methods of paying fees than those set out  in paragraph 1.
179 Particulars concerning payments
(1)  Every payment must indicate the name of  the person making the payment and must contain the necessary particulars to enable the  Office to establish immediately the purpose of  the payment.
(2)  If the purpose of the payment cannot  immediately be established, the Office shall  require the person making the payment to notify  it in writing of this purpose within such period as  it may specify. If he does not comply with this request in due time the payment shall be considered not to have been made.
See notice from the EPO of 20.08.2019 concerning  the fee refund procedures (OJ EPO 2019, A82).
See decision of the President of the EPO of  22.08.2017 (OJ EPO 2017, A72) and notice from the  EPO of 13.05.2020 (OJ EPO 2020, A62) concerning  the payment of fees by credit card.

Rules relating to Fees
180 Date to be considered as the date on which  payment is made
(1)  The date on which any payment shall be  considered to have been made to the Office  shall be the date on which the amount of the  payment or of the transfer is actually entered in  a bank account held by the Office.
(2)  Where the President of the Office allows,  in accordance with the provisions of Article 5,  paragraph 2, other methods of paying fees than  those set out in Article 5, paragraph 1, he shall  also lay down the date on which such payments  shall be considered to have been made.
(3)  Where, under the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, payment of a fee is not considered to have been made until after the expiry of  the period in which it should have been made, it  shall be considered that this period has been  observed if evidence is provided to the Office  that the person who made the payment fulfilled  one of the following conditions in a Contracting  State within the period within which the payment should have been made:
(i)  he effected the payment through a banking establishment;
(ii)  he duly gave an order to a banking establishment to transfer the amount of the payment.
(4)  The Office may request the person who  made the payment to produce evidence as to  the date on which a condition according to paragraph 3 was fulfilled within a period to be  specified by it. If he fails to comply with this request or if the evidence is insufficient, the period for payment shall be considered not to have  been observed.

Rules relating to Fees
181 Insufficiency of the amount paid
A time limit for payment shall in principle be  deemed to have been observed only if the full  amount of the fee has been paid in due time. If  the fee is not paid in full, the amount which has  been paid shall be refunded after the period for  payment has expired. The Office may, however,  in so far as this is possible within the time  remaining before the end of the period, give the  person making the payment the opportunity to  pay the amount lacking. It may also, where this  is considered justified, overlook any small  amounts lacking without prejudice to the rights  of the person making the payment.
182 Refund of search fees
(1)43 The search fee paid for a European or  supplementary European search shall be fully  refunded if the European patent application is  withdrawn or refused or deemed to be withdrawn at a time when the Office has not yet  begun to draw up the search report.

Rules relating to Fees
(2)44 Where the European search report is  based on an earlier search report prepared by  the Office on an application whose priority is  claimed or an earlier application within the  meaning of Article 76 of the Convention or of  Rule 17 of the Convention, the Office shall  refund to the applicant, in accordance with a  decision of its President, an amount which shall  depend on the type of earlier search and the  extent to which the Office benefits from the earlier search report when carrying out the subsequent search.
183 Refund of the fee for a technical opinion
An amount of 75% of the fee for a technical  opinion under Article 25 of the Convention shall  be refunded if the request for a technical opinion is withdrawn at a time when the Office has  not yet begun to draw up the technical opinion.
184 Refund of examination fee
The examination fee provided for in Article 94,  paragraph 1, of the Convention shall be  refunded:
(a)  in full if the European patent application is  withdrawn, refused or deemed to be withdrawn  before the substantive examination has begun;

Rules relating to Fees
(b)  at a rate of 50% if the European patent  application is withdrawn after substantive examination has begun and
-  before expiry of the time limit for replying  to the first invitation under Article 94, paragraph 3, of the Convention issued by the Examining Division proper or,
-  if no such invitation has been issued by  the Examining Division, before the date of the  communication under Rule 71, paragraph 3, of  the Convention.
185 Refund of insignificant amounts
Where too large a sum is paid to cover a fee,  the excess shall not be refunded if the amount  is insignificant and the party concerned has not  expressly requested a refund. The President of  the Office shall determine what constitutes an  insignificant amount.
186 Termination of financial obligations
(1)  Rights of the Organisation to the payment  of a fee to the European Patent Office shall be  extinguished after four years from the end of  the calendar year in which the fee was due.

Rules relating to Fees
(2)  Rights against the Organisation for the  refunding by the European Patent Office of fees  or sums of money paid in excess of a fee shall  be extinguished after four years from the end of  the calendar year in which the right arose.
(3)  The period laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be interrupted in the case covered by  paragraph 1 by a request for payment of the fee  and in the case covered by paragraph 2 by a  reasoned claim in writing. On interruption it  shall begin again immediately and shall end at  the latest six years after the end of the year in  which it originally began, unless, in the meantime, judicial proceedings to enforce the right  have begun; in this case the period shall end at  the earliest one year after the judgment enters  into force.
(4)  The President of the European Patent  Office may waive action for the enforced recovery of any sum due if the sum to be recovered  is minimal or if such recovery is too uncertain.
187 Reduction of fees
(1)49 The reduction laid down in Rule 6, paragraph 3, of the Convention shall be 30% of the  filing fee or examination fee.
See notice from the EPO of 10.01.2014 concerning  amended Rule 6 EPC and Article 14(1) RFees  (OJ EPO 2014, A23).

Rules relating to Fees
(2)50 Where the European Patent Office has  drawn up an international preliminary examination report, the examination fee shall be  reduced by 75%. If the report was established  on certain parts of the international application  in accordance with Article 34, paragraph 3(c),  PCT, the fee shall not be reduced if subjectmatter not covered by the report is to be examined.
188 Entry into force
These Rules shall enter into force on 20 October  1977.51
DONE at Munich, 20 October 1977
For the Administrative Council
The Chairman

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
DECISION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COUNCIL OF 25 MARCH 2015 APPROVING  AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF  PROCEDURE OF THE ENLARGED BOARD  OF APPEAL OF THE EUROPEAN PATENT  OFFICE1
THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION,
Having  regard  to  the  European  Patent  Convention, and in particular Article 23,  paragraph 4, thereof,
Having regard to the amendments to the Rules  of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal,  adopted on 19 March 2015 under Rule 13,  paragraph 2, of the Implementing Regulations  to the ,
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS:
The amendments to the Rules of Procedure of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal, as shown in the  Annex to this decision, are hereby approved.
This decision shall enter into force on 25 March  2015.
Done at Munich, 25 March 2015
For the Administrative Council
The Chairman
Jesper KONGSTAD

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
ANNEX
DECISION
Amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal, OJ EPO 1983, 3, as  amended in OJ EPO 1989, 362, OJ EPO 1994,  443, OJ EPO 2003, 58, and OJ EPO 2007, 303
In accordance with Rule 13 of the Implementing  Regulations to the Convention on the Grant of  European Patents, the Enlarged Board of  Appeal amends its Rules of Procedure. These  amended Rules of Procedure read as follows:
189 Field of application
These Rules of Procedure shall apply in  proceedings before the Enlarged Board of  Appeal under Article 23, paragraph 1, first sentence, EPC, Article 112 EPC, and Article  112a EPC.
190 Business distribution and composition
(1) Before the beginning of each working year  the members of the Enlarged Board of Appeal  appointed under Article 11, paragraph 3, EPC shall draw up a business distribution scheme.  This scheme shall designate the regular  members and their alternates in proceedings  under Article 23, paragraph 1, first sentence,  EPC, Article 112 EPC and Article 112a EPC initiated during the year. The scheme may be  amended during the working year.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(2) The Chairman of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal shall determine the composition of the  Board for each particular case in accordance  with the business distribution scheme. In  proceedings under Article 23, paragraph 1, first sentence, EPC, in accordance with paragraph 5  the composition of the Board shall be  determined by the alternate of the Chairman of  the Enlarged Board of Appeal.
(3) For the examination of a petition under  Article 112a EPC conducted in the composition  under Rule 109, paragraph 2(b), EPC, two legally qualified members shall supplement the  composition specified in Rule 109, paragraph  2(a), EPC.
(4) In proceedings before the Enlarged Board of  Appeal under Article 112, paragraph 1(a), EPC at least four of the members shall not have  taken part in the proceedings before the Board  of Appeal referring the point of law.
(5) In proceedings under Article 23, paragraph  1, first sentence, EPC the Enlarged Board of  Appeal shall be composed according to the  provisions of Article 22, paragraph 2, first sentence, EPC, the Chairman being replaced  by his alternate, and two of the legally qualified  members being external members of the  Enlarged Board of Appeal.
(6) Article 24 EPC shall apply to proceedings  under Article 112a EPC. The Chairman,  appointed under Article 11, paragraph 3, EPC, of the Board against whose decision the petition  for review has been filed may not take part in  the review proceedings.
(7) The parties shall be informed of the Board's  composition as soon as it has been determined  or changed.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
191 Replacement of members
(1) Members shall be replaced by alternates if  they  are  prevented  from  participating,  particularly as a result of sickness, excessive workload, and commitments which cannot be  avoided.
(2) Any member who wishes to be replaced by  an alternate shall inform the Chairman of the  Board of his unavailability without delay.
(3) The Chairman of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal may, in accordance with the business  distribution scheme, designate another regular  legally qualified member of the Board to act as  Chairman in his stead.
192 Exclusion and objection
(1) If the Board has knowledge of a possible  reason for exclusion or objection which does  not originate from a member himself or from  any party to the proceedings, then the  procedure of Article 24, paragraph 4, EPC shall  be applied.
(2) The member concerned shall be invited to  present his comments as to whether there is a  reason for exclusion.
(3) Before a decision is taken on the exclusion  of the member, there shall be no further  proceedings in the case.
193 Rapporteurs
(1) The Chairman of the Board shall for each  case designate a member of the Board, or  himself, as rapporteur. The Chairman may  appoint  an  additional  rapporteur.  The  rapporteur of the Board as composed under  Rule 109, paragraph 2(a), EPC shall generally  go on to be the rapporteur for proceedings  conducted in the composition under Rule 109,  paragraph 2(b), EPC.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(2) If an additional rapporteur is appointed, the  steps referred to in paragraphs 3 to 5 shall be  taken  by  the  rapporteur  and  additional  rapporteur jointly unless the Chairman directs  otherwise.
(3) The rapporteur shall carry out a preliminary  study  of  the  case  and  may  prepare  communications to the eligible parties subject to  the direction of the Chairman of the Board.  Communications shall be signed by the  rapporteur on behalf of the Board.
(4) The rapporteur shall make the preparations  for meetings of the Board and for oral  proceedings.
(5) The rapporteur shall draft decisions or  opinions.
(6) If a rapporteur or additional rapporteur  considers that his knowledge of the language of  the proceedings is insufficient for drafting  communications or decisions or opinions, he  may draft these in one of the other official  languages. His drafts shall be translated by the  European Patent Office into the language of the  proceedings and the translations shall be  checked by the rapporteur or by another  member of the Board.
194 Registry
(1) A Registry shall be established for the  Enlarged Board of Appeal. The Senior Registrar  of the Boards of Appeal or the registrars  assigned to him for this purpose shall be  responsible for the discharge of its functions.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(2) The members of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal  appointed  under  Article  11,  paragraph 3, EPC may entrust to the Registry  tasks which involve no technical or legal  difficulties, in particular in relation to arranging  for inspection of files, issuing summonses to  oral proceedings and notifications and granting  requests for further processing of applications.
(3) Minutes of oral proceedings and of the  taking of evidence shall be drawn up by the  Senior Registrar, a registrar assigned to him for  this purpose or such other employee of the  Office as the Chairman may designate.
195 Change in the composition of the Board
(1) If the composition of the Board is changed  after oral proceedings, the parties eligible to  take part in the proceedings shall be informed  that, at the request of any party, fresh oral  proceedings shall be held before the Board in  its new composition. Fresh oral proceedings  shall also be held if so requested by the new  member and if the other members of the Board  have given their agreement.
(2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to a change in  composition under Article 2, paragraph 3. In this  event, a request for oral proceedings shall  continue to apply even where oral proceedings  have already taken place.
(3) Each new member shall be bound to the  same extent as the other members by an  interim decision which has already been taken.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(4) If, when the Board has already reached a  final decision, a member is unable to act, he  shall not be replaced by an alternate. If the  Chairman is unable to act, the legally qualified  member of the Board having the longest service  on the Board or, in the case where members  have the same length of service, the eldest  member shall sign the decision on behalf of the  Chairman.
196 Consolidation of proceedings
If two or more points of law with the same or  similar subject-matter have been submitted, or  two or more petitions to review the same appeal  decision, the Board may consider them in  consolidated proceedings.
197 EPO President's right to comment
In proceedings under Article 112 EPC the  Board may, on its own initiative or at the written,  reasoned request of the President of the  European Patent Office, invite him to comment  in writing or orally on questions of general  interest  which  arise  in  the  course  of  proceedings pending before it. The parties shall  be entitled to submit their observations on the  President's comments.
198 Statements by third parties
(1) In the course of proceedings under Article 112 EPC, any written statement concerning the  points of law raised in such proceedings which  is sent to the Board by a third party may be  dealt with as the Board thinks fit.
(2) The Board may announce further provisions  concerning such statements in the Official  Journal of the European Patent Office if it  seems appropriate.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
199 Special communications to parties in  proceedings under Article 112a EPC
Notwithstanding  notifications  or  communications required under other provisions,
(a) the other parties shall be informed of the  receipt of a petition for review and shall receive  a copy of the petition, reference being made to  Rule 109, paragraph 3, EPC;
(b) the parties shall be informed that a clearly inadmissible or unallowable petition for review  has been rejected in oral proceedings;
(c) the parties shall be informed that a petition  for review has been forwarded to the Board as  composed under Rule 109, paragraph 2(b),  EPC.
200 New submissions filed after expiry of the  time limit in proceedings under Article 112a  EPC
(1) Notwithstanding Rule 109, paragraph 3,  EPC the Board may consider new submissions  made by the petitioner after expiry of the time  limit for filing petitions for review, if this is  justified for special reasons.
(2) The same shall apply in proceedings  conducted in the composition under Rule 109,  paragraph 2(b), EPC to new submissions from  the other parties filed subsequently to their  reply.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
12a
(1) A request that the Enlarged Board of Appeal  make a proposal for the removal from office of a  member under Article 23, paragraph 1, first sentence, EPC may be made to the Enlarged  Board either by the Administrative Council of  the European Patent Organisation or by the  Vice-President of the European Patent Office in  charge of the Boards of Appeal.
(2) In the case of such a request being made by  the Administrative Council, the Administrative  Council  shall  be  represented  in  the  proceedings. The Vice-President of the European Patent Office in charge of the Boards of  Appeal shall also be entitled to be heard in such  proceedings.
(3) In the case of such a request being made by  the Vice-President in charge of the Boards of  Appeal, he shall be a party to the proceedings.
(4) The member who is the subject of a request  to make a proposal for their removal from office  under Article 23, paragraph 1, first sentence,  EPC shall be a party to the proceedings as  respondent.
(5) The request referred to in paragraph 1 shall  set out all the facts, arguments and evidence  relied on. All documents referred to shall be  attached.
(6) The proceedings shall be conducted in  writing, where necessary or requested supplemented by oral proceedings according to  Article 14, and may not be concluded without  the respondent being informed of the facts,  arguments and evidence underlying the request  and having had the opportunity to be heard on  them. The respondent may appoint a person to  advise or represent him.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(7) Article 117, paragraph 1, EPC shall be  applicable.
(8) The proceedings shall be conducted  independently of any disciplinary or national  proceedings.
(9) Unless and to the extent that the Enlarged  Board decides otherwise, the proceedings shall  not be public and shall be confidential.
(10) The Enlarged Board of Appeal may on  request propose the reimbursement of some or  all costs incurred in the proceedings by the  respondent if the request to make a proposal  for their removal from office has been rejected.
201 Non-binding communications from the  Board
If the Board deems it expedient to communicate  with the eligible parties regarding a possible  appreciation of substantive or legal matters,  such communication shall be made in such a  way as not to imply that the Board is in any way  bound by it.
202 Oral proceedings
(1) If oral proceedings are to take place, the  Board shall endeavour to ensure that the  eligible parties have provided all relevant  information and documents before the hearing.
(2) The Board's communication under Article 13 may draw attention to matters which seem to be  of special significance, or to the fact that  questions appear no longer to be contentious,  or may contain other observations that may  help concentration on essentials during the oral  proceedings.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(3) A change of date for oral proceedings may  exceptionally  be  allowed  in  the Board's  discretion following receipt of a written and  reasoned request made as far in advance of the  appointed date as possible.
(4) The Board shall not be obliged to delay any  step in the proceedings, including its decision,  by reason only of the absence at the oral  proceedings of any party duly summoned who  may then be treated as relying only on its  written case.
(5) The Chairman presides over the oral  proceedings and ensures their fair, orderly and  efficient conduct.
(6) When a case is ready for decision during  oral proceedings, the Chairman shall state the  final requests of the eligible parties and declare  the debate closed. No submissions may be  made by the parties after the closure of the  debate unless the Board decides to re-open the  debate.
(7) The Board shall ensure that each case is  ready for decision at the conclusion of the oral  proceedings, unless there are special reasons  to the contrary. Before the oral proceedings are  closed, the Board's decision or opinion may be  announced orally by the Chairman.
203 Attendance of interpreters
If required, the Chairman of the Board shall  make arrangements for interpreting during oral  proceedings, the taking of evidence or the  deliberations of the Board.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
204 Deliberation and voting
(1) Only members of the Board shall participate  in deliberations; the Chairman may, however,  authorise other officers to attend. Deliberations  shall be secret.
(2) During the deliberations between members  of the Board, the opinion of the rapporteur shall  be heard first, followed by that of the additional  rapporteur if one has been appointed and, if the  rapporteur is not the Chairman, the Chairman's  last.
(3) If voting is necessary, votes shall be taken  in the same sequence; even if the Chairman is  the rapporteur, he shall vote last. Abstentions  shall not be permitted.
205 Submission of case by the Board as  composed under Rule 109, paragraph 2(a),  EPC to the Board as composed under Rule  109, paragraph 2(b), EPC
If, in proceedings under Article 112a EPC, the  Board as composed under Rule 109, paragraph  2(a), EPC fails after deliberation to reach the  unanimous conclusion that the petition for  review  should  be  rejected  as  clearly  inadmissible or unallowable, it shall submit the  petition without delay and without comment as  to its merit to the Board as composed under  Rule 109, paragraph 2(b), EPC for decision.
206 Reasons for the decision or opinion
(1) Subject to Rule 109, paragraph 2(a), EPC the decision or opinion of the Board shall be in  accordance with the votes of the majority of its  members.

Rules of Procedure of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
(2) In proceedings under Article 23, paragraph  1, first sentence, EPC or Article 112 EPC, the  reasons for such decision or opinion may also  indicate the opinions held by a minority of the  members if a majority of the members of the  Board agrees. Neither the names of the  members forming any such minority nor the  size of such minority may be indicated.
(3) The final decision of the Enlarged Board of  Appeal in proceedings under Article 23,  paragraph 1, first sentence, EPC may be  published, due regard being taken of the  confidentiality of the proceedings.
207 Binding nature of the Rules of Procedure
These Rules of Procedure shall be binding  upon the Enlarged Board of Appeal, provided  that they do not lead to a situation which would  be incompatible with the spirit and purpose of  the Convention.
208 Entry into force
These Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on 1 April 2015.
Done at Munich, 19 March 2015
For the Enlarged Board of Appeal
The Chairman
Wim VAN DER EIJK

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
DECISION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE  COUNCIL OF 26 JUNE 2019 APPROVING  THE REVISED VERSION OF THE RULES OF  PROCEDURE OF THE BOARDS OF APPEAL  (CA/D 5/19 CORR. 1)1
THE ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN PATENT ORGANISATION,
Having  regard  to  the  European  Patent  Convention,  and  in  particular  Article 23,  paragraph 4, thereof,
Having regard to the revised version of the  Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal,  adopted by the Boards of Appeal Committee on 4 April 2019 under Rule 12c, paragraph 2, of the Implementing Regulations to the European  Patent Convention,
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS:
The revised version of the Rules of Procedure  of the Boards of Appeal, as shown in the Annex  to this decision, is hereby approved.
Done at Munich, 26 June 2019
For the Administrative Council
The Chairman
Josef KRATOCHVÍL

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
ANNEX
DECISION
In accordance with Rule 12c, paragraph 2, of the Implementing Regulations to the European  Patent Convention, the Boards of Appeal  Committee adopts the following revised version  of the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal:
All terms and pronouns referring to persons in  these Rules of Procedure apply irrespective of  gender.
209 Business distribution and composition
(1) The Presidium referred to in Rule 12b, paragraph 4, EPC, shall before the beginning of  each working year draw up a business distribution scheme for the distribution among the  Boards of Appeal of all appeals that may be  filed during the year, designating the members  who may serve on each Board and their respective alternates. The scheme may be  amended during the working year.
(2) The Chair (Chairman or Chairwoman) of  each Board shall, before the beginning of each  working year, draw up a list of the cases in  which the Board is likely to hold oral proceedings, issue a communication under Rule 100,  paragraph 2, EPC, or issue a decision in written  proceedings in that year. The President of the  Boards of Appeal shall, before the beginning of  each working year, publish the list of each  Board.
(3) The Chair of each Board of Appeal shall determine the composition of the Board for each  particular case in accordance with the business  distribution scheme. The Chair shall designate  himself or herself or a technically or legally  qualified member as Chair in the particular appeal.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
210 Replacement of members
(1) A member or the Chair in a particular appeal  shall be replaced if prevented from participating, particularly as a result of sickness, excessive workload, or commitments which cannot be  avoided.
(2) A member or the Chair in a particular appeal  wishing to be replaced shall inform the Chair of  the Board of their unavailability without delay.
211 Exclusion and objection
(1) If a Board has knowledge of a possible reason for exclusion or objection under Article 24 EPC which does not originate from the  member concerned or from a party, then the  procedure of Article 24, paragraph 4, EPC shall  be applied.
(2) The member concerned shall be invited to  present comments as to whether there is a reason for exclusion or objection.
(3) Before a decision is taken on the exclusion  or objection, there shall be no further proceedings in the case.
212 Procedural compliance
(1) The Chair of the Board shall for each appeal  designate a member of the Board, who may also be the Chair of the Board, to consider the  admissibility of the appeal.
(2) The Chair in the particular appeal or a  member designated by the Chair of the Board  shall ensure that the parties comply with these  Rules of Procedure and with directions of the  Board and shall propose action to be taken as  appropriate.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
213 Rapporteurs
(1) For each appeal, the Chair of the Board  shall designate a technically or legally qualified  member of the Board, who may also be the  Chair of the Board, as rapporteur. If appropriate  in the light of the subject-matter of the case, the  Chair of the Board may designate an additional  rapporteur. The composition of the Board may  be completed at a later stage, in accordance  with Article 1, paragraph 3. The steps referred  to in paragraphs 4 and 5 may not be taken until  the composition of the Board has been completed in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 3.
(2) If an additional rapporteur is appointed, the  steps referred to in paragraphs 3 to 5 shall be  taken by the rapporteur and additional rapporteur jointly.
(3) The rapporteur shall carry out a preliminary  study of the appeal and shall, subject to the direction of the Chair of the Board, assess  whether the appeal should be given priority  over, or should be treated together with, other  appeals assigned to the rapporteur.
(4) The rapporteur shall draft communications  on behalf of the Board, subject to the direction  of the Chair in the particular appeal, and shall  make the preparations for meetings of the  Board and for oral proceedings.
(5) The rapporteur shall draft decisions.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(6) A rapporteur or additional rapporteur who  considers that their knowledge of the language  of the proceedings is insufficient for drafting  communications or decisions may draft these in  one of the other official languages. The drafts  shall be translated by the European Patent Office into the language of the proceedings and  the translations shall be checked by the rapporteur or by another member of the Board in the  particular appeal.
214 Registries
(1) Registries shall be established for the  Boards of Appeal. Registrars shall be responsible for the discharge of the functions of the  Registries. One of the Registrars shall be designated as head of the Registry.
(2) The Presidium referred to in Rule 12b, paragraph 1, EPC may entrust to the Registrars the  execution of functions which involve no technical or legal difficulties, in particular in relation  to arranging for inspection of files, issuing  summonses to oral proceedings, notifications  and granting requests for further processing of  applications.
(3) The Registrar shall report to the Chair of the  Board on the admissibility of each newly filed  appeal.
(4) The Chair in the particular appeal shall designate a member of the Board or, with the  agreement of the Chair of the Board, the Registrar, to draw up the minutes of the oral proceedings and of the taking of evidence.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
215 Interpreters
If required, the Chair in the particular appeal  shall make arrangements for interpretation during oral proceedings, the taking of evidence or  the deliberations of the Board.
216 Change in the composition of a Board
(1) If the composition of a Board is changed after oral proceedings, the parties shall be informed that, at the request of any party, fresh  oral proceedings shall be held before the Board  in its new composition. Fresh oral proceedings  shall also be held if so requested by the new  member and if the other members of the Board  in the particular appeal have given their agreement.
(2) Each new member shall be bound to the  same extent as the other members by an interlocutory decision which has already been taken.
(3) A member who is unable to act after the Board has already reached a decision on the  appeal shall not be replaced. If the Chair in a  particular appeal is unable to act, the member  of the Board having the longer or longest service on the Boards of Appeal or, in the case  where members have the same length of service, the elder or eldest member, shall sign the  decision on behalf of the Chair.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
217 Enlargement of a Board
If a Board consisting of two technically qualified  members and one legally qualified member  considers that the nature of the appeal requires  that the Board should consist of three technically qualified members and two legally qualified  members, the decision to enlarge the Board  shall be taken at the earliest possible stage in  the examination of that appeal.
218 Consolidation and acceleration of appeal  proceedings
(1) If several appeals are filed from a decision,  these appeals shall be dealt with in the same  proceedings.
(2) If appeals are filed from separate decisions  but are clearly connected to each other and if  they are to be examined by a Board in the  same composition, that Board shall endeavour  to deal with them one immediately after the  other. The Board may, after having heard the  parties, also deal with such appeals in consolidated proceedings.
(3) On request by a party, the Board may accelerate the appeal proceedings. The request  shall contain reasons justifying the acceleration  and shall, where appropriate, be supported by  documentary evidence. The Board shall inform  the parties whether the request has been  granted.
(4) If a court or other competent authority in a  Contracting State requests acceleration of the  appeal proceedings, the Board shall inform the  court or authority and the parties whether the  request has been granted and when oral proceedings, if foreseen, are likely to take place.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(5) The Board may accelerate the appeal proceedings of its own motion.
(6) If the Board accelerates the appeal proceedings, it shall give the appeal priority over other  appeals. The Board may adopt a strict framework for the proceedings.
219 Remittal
The Board shall not remit a case to the department whose decision was appealed for further  prosecution, unless special reasons present  themselves for doing so. As a rule, fundamental  deficiencies which are apparent in the proceedings before that department constitute such special reasons.
220 Basis of appeal proceedings
(1) Appeal proceedings shall be based on
(a) the decision under appeal and minutes of  any oral proceedings before the department  having issued that decision;
(b) the notice of appeal and statement of  grounds of appeal filed pursuant to Article 108  EPC;
(c) in cases where there is more than one party,  any written reply of the other party or parties to  be filed within four months of notification of the  grounds of appeal;
(d) any communication sent by the Board and  any answer thereto filed pursuant to directions  of the Board;
(e) minutes of any video or telephone conference with the party or parties sent by the Board.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(2) In view of the primary object of the appeal  proceedings to review the decision under appeal in a judicial manner, a partyꞌs appeal case  shall be directed to the requests, facts, objections, arguments and evidence on which the  decision under appeal was based.
(3) The statement of grounds of appeal and the  reply shall contain a party's complete appeal  case. Accordingly, they shall set out clearly and  concisely the reasons why it is requested that  the decision under appeal be reversed, amended or upheld, and should specify expressly all  the requests, facts, objections, arguments and  evidence relied on. All documents referred to  shall be
(a) attached as annexes insofar as they have  not already been filed in the course of the grant,  opposition or appeal proceedings or produced  by the Office in said proceedings;
(b) filed in any event to the extent that the  Board so directs in a particular case.
(4) Any part of a party's appeal case which  does not meet the requirements in paragraph 2  is to be regarded as an amendment, unless the  party demonstrates that this part was admissibly raised and maintained in the proceedings  leading to the decision under appeal. Any such  amendment may be admitted only at the discretion of the Board.
The party shall clearly identify each amendment  and provide reasons for submitting it in the appeal proceedings. In the case of an amendment  to a patent application or patent, the party shall  also indicate the basis for the amendment in the  application as filed and provide reasons why  the amendment overcomes the objections  raised.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
The Board shall exercise its discretion in view  of, inter alia, the complexity of the amendment,  the suitability of the amendment to address the  issues which led to the decision under appeal,  and the need for procedural economy.
(5) The Board has discretion not to admit any  part of a submission by a party which does not  meet the requirements in paragraph 3.
(6) The Board shall not admit requests, facts,  objections or evidence which were not admitted  in the proceedings leading to the decision under  appeal, unless the decision not to admit them  suffered from an error in the use of discretion or  unless the circumstances of the appeal case  justify their admittance.
The Board shall not admit requests, facts, objections or evidence which should have been  submitted, or which were no longer maintained,  in the proceedings leading to the decision under  appeal, unless the circumstances of the appeal  case justify their admittance.
(7) Periods specified by the Board may exceptionally be extended at the Board's discretion  upon a written and reasoned request, presented before the expiry of such period. The same  applies mutatis mutandis to the period referred  to in paragraph 1(c); however, this period may  only be extended up to a maximum of six  months.
(8) Subject to Articles 113 and 116 EPC, the  Board may decide the case at any time after filing of the statement of grounds of appeal or, in  cases where there is more than one party, after  the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 1(c).

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
221 Amendment to a party's appeal case
(1) Any amendment to a party's appeal case after it has filed its grounds of appeal or reply is  subject to the party's justification for its amendment and may be admitted only at the discretion of the Board.
12, p
The party shall provide reasons for submitting  the amendment at this stage of the appeal proceedings.
The Board shall exercise its discretion in view  of, inter alia, the current state of the proceedings, the suitability of the amendment to resolve  the issues which were admissibly raised by another party in the appeal proceedings or which  were raised by the Board, whether the amendment is detrimental to procedural economy,  and, in the case of an amendment to a patent  application or patent, whether the party has  demonstrated that any such amendment, prima  facie, overcomes the issues raised by another  party in the appeal proceedings or by the Board  and does not give rise to new objections.
(2) Any amendment to a party's appeal case  made after the expiry of a period specified by  the Board in a communication under Rule 100,  paragraph 2, EPC or, where such a communication is not issued, after notification of a summons to oral proceedings shall, in principle, not  be taken into account unless there are exceptional circumstances, which have been justified  with cogent reasons by the party concerned.
(3) Other parties shall be entitled to submit their  observations on any amendment not held inadmissible by the Board ex officio.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
222 Interventions
Where, during a pending appeal, notice of intervention is filed, Articles 12 and 13 shall apply  in so far as justified by the circumstances of the  case.
223 Oral proceedings and issuing decisions
(1) Without prejudice to Rule 115, paragraph 1,  EPC, the Board shall, if oral proceedings are to  take place, endeavour to give at least four  months' notice of the summons. In cases where  there is more than one party, the Board shall  endeavour to issue the summons no earlier  than two months after receipt of the written reply or replies referred to in Article 12, paragraph 1(c). A single date is fixed for the oral  proceedings.
In order to help concentration on essentials during the oral proceedings, the Board shall issue  a communication drawing attention to matters  that seem to be of particular significance for the  decision to be taken. The Board may also provide a preliminary opinion. The Board shall endeavour to issue the communication at least  four months in advance of the date of the oral  proceedings.
(2) A request of a party for a change of the date  fixed for oral proceedings may be allowed if the  party has put forward serious reasons which  justify the fixing of a new date. If the party is  represented, the serious reasons must relate to  the representative.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(a) The request shall be filed in writing, reasoned and, where appropriate, supported by  documentary evidence. The request shall be  filed as soon as possible after the summons to  oral proceedings has been notified and the serious reasons in question have arisen. The request should include a list of dates on which the  requesting party is not available for oral proceedings.
(b) Reasons which may justify a change of the  date for oral proceedings include:
(i) notification of a summons to oral proceedings in other proceedings before the European  Patent Office or a national court received before  notification of the summons to oral proceedings  before the Board;
(ii) serious illness;
(iii) a death within the family;
(iv) marriage or formation of a similar recognised partnership;
(v) military service or other obligatory performance of civic duties;
(vi) holidays or business trips which have been  firmly booked before notification of the summons to oral proceedings.
(c) Reasons which, as a rule, do not justify a  change of the date for oral proceedings include:
(i) filing of new requests, facts, objections, arguments or evidence;
(ii) excessive work pressure;
(iii) unavailability of a duly represented party;
(iv) unavailability of an accompanying person;

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(v) appointment of a new professional representative.
(3) The Board shall not be obliged to delay any  step in the proceedings, including its decision,  by reason only of the absence at the oral proceedings of a party duly summoned who may  then be treated as relying only on its written  case.
(4) The Chair presides over the oral proceedings and ensures their fair, orderly and efficient  conduct.
(5) When a case is ready for decision during  oral proceedings, the Chair shall state the final  requests of the parties and declare the debate  closed. No submissions may be made by the  parties after the closure of the debate unless  the Board decides to re-open the debate.
(6) The Board shall ensure that each case is  ready for decision at the conclusion of the oral  proceedings, unless there are special reasons  to the contrary. Before the oral proceedings are  closed, the decision may be announced orally  by the Chair.
(7) Where the decision on the appeal has been  announced orally in accordance with paragraph  6, the reasons for the decision, or parts thereof,  may, with the explicit consent of the parties, be  put in writing in abridged form. However, where  it has been indicated to the Board that a third  party or a court has, in the particular case, a legitimate interest in the reasons for the decision not being in abridged form, they shall not be  abridged. Where appropriate, the reasons for  the decision in abridged form may already be  included in the minutes of the oral proceedings.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(8) If the Board agrees with the finding of the  department which issued the decision under  appeal, on one or more issues, and with the  reasons given for it in the decision under appeal, the Board may put the reasons for its decision in abridged form in respect of that issue.
(9) The Board shall issue the decision on the  appeal in a timely manner.
(a) Where the Chair announces the decision on  the appeal orally in accordance with paragraph 6, the Board shall put the decision in writing and despatch it within three months of the  date of the oral proceedings. If the Board is unable to do so, it shall inform the parties when  the decision is to be despatched. The President  of the Boards of Appeal shall also be informed  thereof.
(b) When a case is ready for decision at the  conclusion of the oral proceedings but the Chair  does not announce the decision on the appeal  orally in accordance with paragraph 6, the Chair  shall indicate the date on which the decision on  the appeal is to be despatched, which shall not  be later than three months after the closure of  the oral proceedings. If the Board is unable to  despatch the decision on the appeal by that  date, it shall inform the parties of a new date or,  in exceptional circumstances, shall issue a  communication specifying the further procedural steps that will be taken.
224 Costs
(1) Subject to Article 104, paragraph 1, EPC, the Board may on request order a party to pay  some or all of another party's costs. Without  limiting the Board's discretion, such costs include those incurred by any

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(a) amendment to a party's appeal case pursuant to Article 13;
(b) extension of a period;
(c) acts or omissions prejudicing the timely and  efficient conduct of oral proceedings;
(d) failure to comply with a direction of the  Board;
(e) abuse of procedure.
(2) The costs ordered to be paid may be all or  part of those incurred by the receiving party and  may, inter alia, be expressed as a percentage  or as a specific sum. In the latter event, the  Board's decision shall be a final decision for the  purposes of Article 104, paragraph 3, EPC. The  costs ordered may include costs charged to a  party by its professional representative, costs  incurred by a party itself whether or not acting  through a professional representative, and the  costs of witnesses or experts paid by a party  but shall be limited to costs necessarily and  reasonably incurred.
225 Communications to the parties
(1) In the written phase of proceedings, replies  to requests and directions on matters of procedure shall be given by means of communications.
(2) If a Board deems it expedient to communicate with the parties regarding a possible appreciation of substantive or legal matters, such  communication shall be made in such a way as  not to imply that the Board is in any way bound  by it.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
226 Right of the President of the European  Patent Office to comment
The Board may, of its own motion or at the written, reasoned request of the President of the  European Patent Office, invite the President to  comment in writing or orally on questions of  general interest which arise in the course of  proceedings pending before it. The parties shall  be entitled to submit their observations on the  President's comments.
227 Deliberation and voting
(1) If the members of a Board are not all of the  same opinion, the Board shall meet to deliberate regarding the decision to be taken. Only  members of the Board shall participate in the  deliberations; the Chair in the particular appeal  may, however, authorise other officers to attend. The deliberations shall be secret.
(2) During the deliberations of the Board, the  opinion of the rapporteur shall be heard first,  followed by that of the additional rapporteur if  one has been appointed and, if the rapporteur  is not the Chair, by that of the Chair last.
(3) If voting is necessary, votes shall be taken  in the same sequence, except that the Chair,  even when rapporteur, shall vote last. Abstentions shall not be permitted.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
228 Deviations from an earlier decision of any  Board or from the Guidelines for  Examination
(1) Should a Board consider it necessary to deviate from an interpretation or explanation of the  Convention given in an earlier decision of any  Board, the grounds for this deviation shall be  given, unless such grounds are in accordance  with an earlier decision or opinion of the Enlarged Board of Appeal according to Article 112,  paragraph 1, EPC. The President of the European Patent Office shall be informed of the  Board's decision.
(2) If, in its decision, a Board gives a different  interpretation of the Convention from that provided for in the Guidelines for Examination, it  shall state its grounds for doing so if it considers that the decision will be more readily understood in the light of such grounds.
229 Deviation from an earlier decision or opinion  of the Enlarged Board of Appeal
Should a Board consider it necessary to deviate  from an interpretation or explanation of the  Convention contained in an earlier decision or  opinion of the Enlarged Board of Appeal according to Article 112, paragraph 1, EPC, the question shall be referred to the Enlarged  Board of Appeal.
230 Referral of a question to the Enlarged Board  of Appeal
(1) If a question is to be referred to the Enlarged Board of Appeal in accordance with Article 112, paragraph 1, EPC, a decision to this effect shall be taken by the Board.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(2) The decision shall contain the items specified in Rule 102, sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f), EPC and the question which the  Board refers to the Enlarged Board of Appeal.  The context in which the question arose shall  also be stated.
(3) The decision shall be communicated to the  parties.
231 Binding nature of the Rules of Procedure
These Rules of Procedure shall be binding upon the Boards of Appeal, provided that they do  not lead to a situation which would be incompatible with the spirit and purpose of the Convention.
232 Entry into force
(1) The revised version of the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal (the revised version) shall enter into force on 1 January 2020.
(2) Subject to Article 25, the version of the  Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal valid until that time shall cease to be in force upon  entry into force of the revised version.
233 Transitional provisions
(1) The revised version shall apply to any appeal pending on, or filed after, the date of the  entry into force, subject to the following paragraphs.

Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal
(2) Article 12, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the revised  version shall not apply to any statement of  grounds of appeal filed before the date of the  entry into force and any reply to it filed in due  time. Instead, Article 12, paragraph 4, of the  Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal in  the version valid until the date of the entry into  force shall continue to apply.
(3) Where the summons to oral proceedings or  a communication of the Board under Rule 100,  paragraph 2, EPC has been notified before the  date of the entry into force, Article 13, paragraph 2, of the revised version shall not apply.  Instead, Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure of  the Boards of Appeal in the version valid until  the date of the entry into force shall continue to  apply.
Done at Munich, 4 April 2019
For the Boards of Appeal Committee
The Chairman
Roland GROSSENBACHER

Protocol on Interpretation
234 General principles
69 s
235 Equivalents
For the purpose of determining the extent of  protection conferred by a European patent, due  account shall be taken of any element which is  equivalent to an element specified in the claims.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section I2
(1)(a) Upon entry into force of the Convention,  States parties thereto which are also members  of the International Patent Institute set up by the  Hague Agreement of 6 June 1947 shall take all  necessary steps to ensure the transfer to the  European Patent Office no later than the date  referred to in Article 162, paragraph 1, of the  Convention of all assets and liabilities and all  staff members of the International Patent Institute. Such transfer shall be effected by an  agreement between the International Patent  Institute and the European Patent Organisation.  The above States and the other States parties  to the Convention shall take all necessary steps  to ensure that that agreement shall be  implemented no later than the date referred to  in Article 162, paragraph 1, of the Convention. Upon implementation of the agreement, those  Member States of the International Patent  Institute  which  are  also  parties  to  the  Convention further undertake to terminate their  participation in the Hague Agreement.

Protocol on Centralisation
(b)  The States parties to the Convention shall  take all necessary steps to ensure that all the  assets and liabilities and all the staff members  of the International Patent Institute are taken  into the European Patent Office in accordance  with the agreement referred to in sub-paragraph  (a). After the implementation of that agreement  the tasks incumbent upon the International Patent Institute at the date on which the Convention is opened for signature, and in particular  those carried out vis-à-vis its Member States,  whether or not they become parties to the Convention, and such tasks as it has undertaken at  the time of the entry into force of the Convention to carry out vis-à-vis States which, at that  date, are both members of the International  Patent Institute and parties to the Convention,  shall be assumed by the European Patent  Office. In addition, the Administrative Council of  the European Patent Organisation may allocate  further duties in the field of searching to the  European Patent Office.
(c)  The above obligations shall also apply  mutatis mutandis to the sub-office set up under  the Hague Agreement under the conditions set  out in the agreement between the International  Patent Institute and the Government of the  Contracting State concerned. This Government  hereby undertakes to make a new agreement  with the European Patent Organisation in place  of the one already made with the International  Patent Institute to harmonise the clauses cocerning the organisation, operation and financing of the sub-office with the provisions of this  Protocol.

Protocol on Centralisation
(2)  Subject to the provisions of Section III, the States parties to the Convention shall, on  behalf of their central industrial property offices,  renounce in favour of the European Patent  Office any activities as International Searching  Authorities under the Patent Cooperation Treaty  as from the date referred to in Article 162,  paragraph 1, of the Convention.
(3)(a) A sub-office of the European Patent  Office shall be set up in Berlin as from the date  referred to in Article 162, paragraph 1, of the  Convention. It shall operate under the direction  of the branch at The Hague.
(b)  The Administrative Council shall determine the duties to be allocated to the sub-office  in Berlin in the light of general considerations  and of the requirements of the European Patent  Office.
(c)  At least at the beginning of the period following the progressive expansion of the field of  activity of the European Patent Office, the  amount of work assigned to that sub-office shall  be sufficient to enable the examining staff of the  Berlin Annex of the German Patent Office, as it  stands at the date on which the Convention is  opened for signature, to be fully employed.
(d)  The Federal Republic of Germany shall  bear any additional costs incurred by the European Patent Organisation in setting up and  maintaining the sub-office in Berlin.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section II
Subject to the provisions of Sections III and IV, the States parties to the Convention shall, on  behalf of their central industrial property offices,  renounce in favour of the European Patent  Office any activities as International Preliminary  Examining Authorities under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. This obligation shall apply only  to the extent to which the European Patent  Office may examine European patent applications in accordance with Article 162, paragraph 2, of the Convention and shall not apply  until two years after the date on which the  European Patent Office has begun examining  activities in the areas of technology concerned,  on the basis of a five-year plan which shall progressively extend the activities of the European  Patent Office to all areas of technology and  which may be amended only by decision of the  Administrative Council. The procedures for  implementing this obligation shall be determined by decision of the Administrative Council.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section III
(1)  The central industrial property office of  any State party to the Convention in which the  official language is not one of the official languages of the European Patent Office, shall be  authorised to act as an International Searching  Authority and as an International Preliminary  Examining Authority under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. Such authorisation shall be subject  to an undertaking by the State concerned to  restrict such activities to international applications filed by nationals or residents of such  State and by nationals or residents of States  parties to the Convention which are adjacent to  that State. The Administrative Council may  decide to authorise the central industrial  property office of any State party to the Convention to extend such activities to cover such  international applications as may be filed by  nationals or residents of any non-Contracting  State having the same official language as the  Contracting State in question and drawn up in  that language.
(2)  For the purpose of harmonising search  activities under the Patent Cooperation Treaty  within the framework of the European system  for the grant of patents, co-operation shall be  established between the European Patent  Office and any central industrial property office  authorised under this Section. Such cooperation shall be based on a special agreement  which may cover e.g. search procedures and  methods, qualifications required for the recruitment and training of examiners, guidelines for  the exchange of search and other services  between the offices as well as other measures  needed to establish the required control and  supervision.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section IV
(1)(a) For the purpose of facilitating the adaptation of the national patent offices of the States  parties to the Convention to the European patent system, the Administrative Council may, if it  considers it desirable, and subject to the conditions set out below, entrust the central industrial  property offices of such of those States in which  it is possible to conduct the proceedings in one  of the official languages of the European Patent  Office with tasks concerning the examination of  European patent applications drawn up in that  language which, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 2, of the Convention, shall, as a general  rule, be entrusted to a member of the Examining Division. Such tasks shall be carried out  within the framework of the proceedings for  grant laid down in the Convention; decisions on  such applications shall be taken by the Examining Division composed in accordance with Article 18, paragraph 2.
(b)  Tasks entrusted under sub-paragraph (a) shall not be in respect of more than 40% of the  total number of European patent applications  filed; tasks entrusted to any one State shall not  be in respect of more than one-third of the total  number of European patent applications filed.  These tasks shall be entrusted for a period of  15 years from the opening of the European Patent Office and shall be reduced progressively  (in principle by 20% a year) to zero during the  last 5 years of the period.
(c)  The Administrative Council shall decide,  while taking into account the provisions of  sub-paragraph (b), upon the nature, origin and  number of the European patent applications in  respect of which examining tasks may be  entrusted to the central industrial property office  of each of the Contracting States mentioned  above.

Protocol on Centralisation
(d)  The above implementing procedures shall  be set out in a special agreement between the  central industrial property office of the Contracting State concerned and the European Patent  Organisation.
(e)  An office with which such a special  agreement has been concluded may act as an  International Preliminary Examining Authority  under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, until the  expiry of the period of 15 years.
(2)(a) If the Administrative Council considers  that it is compatible with the proper functioning  of the European Patent Office, and in order to  alleviate the difficulties which may arise for certain Contracting States from the application of  Section I, paragraph 2, it may entrust searching  in respect of European patent applications to  the central industrial property offices of those  States in which the official language is one of  the official languages of the European Patent  Office, provided that these offices possess the  necessary qualifications for appointment as an  International Searching Authority in accordance  with the conditions laid down in the Patent  Cooperation Treaty.
(b)  In carrying out such work, undertaken  under the responsibility of the European Patent  Office, the central industrial property offices  concerned shall adhere to the guidelines applicable to the drawing up of the European search  report.
(c)  The provisions of paragraph 1(b), second  sentence, and sub-paragraph (d) of this Section  shall apply to this paragraph.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section V
(1)  The sub-office referred to in Section I, paragraph 1(c), shall be authorised to carry out  searches, among the documentation which is at  its disposal and which is in the official language  of the State in which the sub-office is located, in  respect of European patent applications filed by  nationals and residents of that State. This  authorisation shall be on the understanding that  the procedure for the grant of European patents  will not be delayed and that additional costs will  not be incurred for the European Patent  Organisation.
(2)  The sub-office referred to in paragraph 1 shall be authorised to carry out, at the option of  an applicant for a European patent and at his  expense, a search on his patent application  among the documentation referred to in paragraph 1. This authorisation shall be effective  until the search provided for in Article 92 of the  Convention has been extended, in accordance  with Section VI, to cover such documentation  and shall be on the understanding that the  procedure for the grant of European patents will  not be delayed.
(3)  The Administrative Council may also  extend the authorisations provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2, under the conditions of those  paragraphs, to the central industrial property  office of a Contracting State which does not  have as an official language one of the official languages of the European Patent Office.

Protocol on Centralisation
Section VI
The search provided for in Article 92 of the  Convention shall, in principle, be extended, in  respect of all European patent applications, to  published patents, published patent applications and other relevant documents of Contracting States not included in the search documentation of the European Patent Office on the date  referred to in Article 162, paragraph 1, of the Convention. The extent, conditions and timing  of any such extension shall be determined by  the Administrative Council on the basis of a  study concerning particularly the technical and  financial aspects.
Section VII
The provisions of this Protocol shall prevail over  any contradictory provisions of the Convention.
Section VIII
The decisions of the Administrative Council  provided for in this Protocol shall require a  three-quarters majority (Article 35, paragraph 2,  of the Convention). The provisions governing  the weighting of votes (Article 36 of the Convention) shall apply.

Protocol on Recognition
Section I   Jurisdiction
11
(1)  The courts of the Contracting States shall,  in accordance with Articles 2 to 6, have jurisdiction to decide claims, against the applicant, to  the right to the grant of a European patent in  respect of one or more of the Contracting  States designated in the European patent  application.
(2)  For the purposes of this Protocol, the term  "courts" shall include authorities which, under  the national law of a Contracting State, have  jurisdiction to decide the claims referred to in  paragraph 1. Any Contracting State shall notify  the European Patent Office of the identity of  any authority on which such a jurisdiction is conferred, and the European Patent Office shall  inform the other Contracting States accordingly.
(3)  For the purposes of this Protocol, the term  "Contracting State" refers to a Contracting State  which has not excluded application of this Protocol pursuant to Article 167 of the Convention.
2
Subject to Articles 4 and 5, if an applicant for a  European patent has his residence or principal  place of business within one of the Contracting  States, proceedings shall be brought against  him in the courts of that Contracting State.

Protocol on Recognition
3
Subject to Articles 4 and 5, if an applicant for a  European patent has his residence or principal  place of business outside the Contracting  States, and if the party claiming the right to the  grant of the European patent has his residence  or principal place of business within one of the  Contracting States, the courts of the latter State  shall have exclusive jurisdiction.
4
Subject to Article 5, if the subject-matter of a  European patent application is the invention of  an employee, the courts of the Contracting  State, if any, whose law determines the right to  the European patent pursuant to Article 60,  paragraph  1,  second  sentence,  of  the  Convention, shall have exclusive jurisdiction  over proceedings between the employee and  the employer.
5
(1)  If the parties to a dispute concerning the  right to the grant of a European patent have  concluded an agreement, either in writing or  verbally with written confirmation, to the effect  that a court or the courts of a particular  Contracting State shall decide on such a  dispute, the court or courts of that State shall  have exclusive jurisdiction.
(2)  However, if the parties are an employee  and his employer, paragraph 1 shall only apply  in so far as the national law governing the contract of employment allows the agreement in  question.
6
In cases where neither Articles 2 to 4 nor Article 5, paragraph 1, apply, the courts of the Federal  Republic of Germany shall have exclusive jurisdiction.

Protocol on Recognition
7
The courts of Contracting States before which  claims referred to in Article 1 are brought shall  of their own motion decide whether or not they  have jurisdiction pursuant to Articles 2 to 6.
8
(1)  In the event of proceedings based on the  same claim and between the same parties  being brought before courts of different Contracting States, the court to which a later application is made shall of its own motion decline  jurisdiction in favour of the court to which an  earlier application was made.
(2)  In the event of the jurisdiction of the court  to which an earlier application is made being  challenged, the court to which a later application is made shall stay the proceedings until the  other court takes a final decision.
Section II   Recognition
92
(1)  Subject to the provisions of Article 11,  paragraph 2, final decisions given in any Contracting State on the right to the grant of a European patent in respect of one or more of the  Contracting States designated in the European  patent application shall be recognised without  requiring a special procedure in the other Contracting States.
(2)  The jurisdiction of the court whose decision is to be recognised and the validity of such  decision may not be reviewed.

Protocol on Recognition
10
9, p
(a)  an applicant for a European patent who  has not contested a claim proves that the  document initiating the proceedings was not  notified to him regularly and sufficiently early for  him to defend himself; or
(b)  an applicant proves that the decision is  incompatible with another decision given in a  Contracting State in proceedings between the  same parties which were started before those in  which the decision to be recognised was given.
11
(1)  In relations between any Contracting  States the provisions of this Protocol shall prevail over any conflicting provisions of other  agreements on jurisdiction or the recognition of  judgments.
(2)  This Protocol shall not affect the implementation of any agreement between a Contracting State and a State which is not bound by  the Protocol.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
1
(1)  The premises of the Organisation shall be  inviolable.
(2)  The authorities of the States in which the  Organisation has its premises shall not enter  those premises, except with the consent of the  President of the European Patent Office. Such  consent shall be assumed in case of fire or  other disaster requiring prompt protective  action.
(3)  Service of process at the premises of the  Organisation and of any other procedural  instruments relating to a cause of action against  the Organisation shall not constitute breach of  inviolability.
2
The archives of the Organisation and any documents belonging to or held by it shall be inviolable.
3
(1)  Within the scope of its official activities the  Organisation shall have immunity from jurisdiction and execution, except
(a)  to the extent that the Organisation shall  have expressly waived such immunity in a particular case;
(b)  in the case of a civil action brought by a  third party for damage resulting from an accident caused by a motor vehicle belonging to, or  operated on behalf of, the Organisation, or in  respect of a motor traffic offence involving such  a vehicle;
(c)  in respect of the enforcement of an arbitration award made under Article 23.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(2)  The property and assets of the Organisation, wherever situated, shall be immune from  any form of requisition, confiscation, expropriation and sequestration.
(3)  The property and assets of the Organisation shall also be immune from any form of  administrative or provisional judicial constraint,  except in so far as may be temporarily necessary in connection with the prevention of, and  investigation into, accidents involving motor  vehicles belonging to or operated on behalf of  the Organisation.
(4)  The official activities of the Organisation  shall, for the purposes of this Protocol, be such  as are strictly necessary for its administrative  and technical operation, as set out in the Convention.
4
(1)  Within the scope of its official activities the  Organisation and its property and income shall  be exempt from all direct taxes.
(2)  Where substantial purchases for the exercise of its official activities, and in the price of  which taxes or duties are included, are made by  the Organisation, appropriate measures shall, whenever possible, be taken by the Contracting  States to remit or reimburse to the Organisation  the amount of such taxes or duties.
(3)  No exemption shall be accorded in respect  of duties and taxes which are no more than  charges for public utility services.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
5
Goods imported or exported by the Organisation for the exercise of its official activities shall  be exempt from duties and charges on import  or export other than fees or taxes representing  services rendered, and from all prohibitions and  restrictions on import or export.
6
No exemption shall be granted under Articles 4 and 5 in respect of goods purchased or imported for the personal benefit of the employees of  the European Patent Office.
7
(1)  Goods belonging to the Organisation  which have been acquired or imported under  Article 4 or Article 5 shall not be sold or given  away except in accordance with conditions laid  down by the Contracting States which have  granted the exemptions.
(2)  The transfer of goods and provision of  services between the various buildings of the  Organisation shall be exempt from charges or  restrictions of any kind; where appropriate, the  Contracting States shall take all the necessary  measures to remit or reimburse the amount of  such charges or to lift such restrictions.
8
The transmission of publications and other  information material by or to the Organisation  shall not be restricted in any way.
9
The Contracting States shall accord the  Organisation the currency exemptions which  are necessary for the exercise of its official  activities.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
10
(1)  With regard to its official communications  and the transfer of all its documents, the  Organisation shall in each Contracting State  enjoy the most favourable treatment accorded  by that State to any other international organisation.
(2)  No censorship shall be applied to official  communications of the Organisation by whatever means of communication.
11
The Contracting States shall take all appropriate measures to facilitate the entry, stay and  departure of the employees of the European  Patent Office.
12
(1)  Representatives of Contracting States,  alternate Representatives and their advisers or  experts, if any, shall enjoy, while attending  meetings of the Administrative Council and of  any body established by it, and in the course of  their journeys to and from the place of meeting,  the following privileges and immunities:
(a)  immunity from arrest or detention and from  seizure of their personal luggage, except when  found committing, attempting to commit, or just  having committed an offence;
(b)  immunity from jurisdiction, even after the  termination of their mission, in respect of acts,  including words written and spoken, done by  them in the exercise of their functions; this  immunity shall not apply, however, in the case  of a motor traffic offence committed by one of  the persons referred to above, nor in the case  of damage caused by a motor vehicle belonging  to or driven by such a person;

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(c)  inviolability for all their official papers and  documents;
(d)  the right to use codes and to receive documents or correspondence by special courier or  sealed bag;
(e)  exemption  for  themselves  and  their  spouses from all measures restricting entry and  from aliens' registration formalities;
(f)  the same facilities in the matter of currency and exchange control as are accorded to the  representatives of foreign Governments on  temporary official missions.
(2)  Privileges and immunities are accorded to  the persons referred to in paragraph 1, not for  their personal advantage but in order to ensure  complete independence in the exercise of their  functions in connection with the Organisation.  Consequently, a Contracting State has the duty to waive the immunity in all cases where, in the  opinion of that State, such immunity would  impede the course of justice and where it can  be waived without prejudicing the purposes for  which it was accorded.
13
(1)  Subject to the provisions of Article 6, the  President of the European Patent Office shall  enjoy the privileges and immunities accorded to  diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention  on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961.
(2)  However, immunity from jurisdiction shall  not apply in the case of a motor traffic offence  committed by the President of the European  Patent Office or damage caused by a motor  vehicle belonging to or driven by him.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
14
The employees of the European Patent Office:
(a)  shall, even after their service has terminated, have immunity from jurisdiction in  respect of acts, including words written and  spoken, done in the exercise of their functions;  this immunity shall not apply, however, in the  case of a motor traffic offence committed by an  employee of the European Patent Office, nor in  the case of damage caused by a motor vehicle  belonging to or driven by an employee;
(b)  shall be exempt from all obligations in  respect of military service;
(c)  shall enjoy inviolability for all their official  papers and documents;
(d)  shall enjoy the same facilities as regards  exemption from all measures restricting immigration and governing aliens' registration as are  normally accorded to staff members of international organisations, as shall members of their  families forming part of their household;
(e)  shall enjoy the same privileges in respect  of exchange regulations as are normally  accorded to the staff members of international  organisations;
(f)  shall enjoy the same facilities as to repatriation as diplomatic agents in time of international crises, as shall the members of their families forming part of their household;

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(g)  shall have the right to import duty-free  their furniture and personal effects at the time of  first taking up their post in the State concerned  and the right on the termination of their functions in that State to export free of duty their  furniture and personal effects, subject to the  conditions considered necessary by the Government of the State in whose territory the right  is exercised and with the exception of property  acquired in that State which is subject to an  export prohibition therein.
151
Experts performing functions on behalf of, or  carrying out missions for, the Organisation shall  enjoy the following privileges and immunities, to  the extent that they are necessary for the carrying out of their functions, including during journeys made in carrying out their functions and in  the course of such missions:
(a)  immunity from jurisdiction in respect of  acts done by them in the exercise of their functions, including words written or spoken, except  in the case of a motor traffic offence committed  by an expert or in the case of damage caused  by a motor vehicle belonging to or driven by  him; experts shall continue to enjoy this immunity after they have ceased to be employed  by the Organisation;
(b)  inviolability for all their official papers and  documents;
(c)  the exchange facilities necessary for the  transfer of their remuneration.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
16
(1)  The persons referred to in Articles 13 and  14 shall be subject to a tax for the benefit of the  Organisation on salaries and emoluments paid  by the Organisation, subject to the conditions  and rules laid down by the Administrative  Council within a period of one year from the  date of the entry into force of the Convention.  From the date on which this tax is applied, such  salaries and emoluments shall be exempt from  national income tax. The Contracting States  may, however, take into account the salaries  and emoluments thus exempt when assessing  the amount of tax to be applied to income from  other sources.
(2)  Paragraph 1 shall not apply to pensions  and annuities paid by the Organisation to the  former employees of the European Patent  Office.
172
The Administrative Council shall decide the  categories of employees to whom the provisions of Article 14, in whole or in part, and Article 16 shall apply and the categories of experts  to whom the provisions of Article 15 shall apply.  The names, titles and addresses of the  employees and experts included in such categories shall be communicated from time to time  to the Contracting States.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
18
In the event of the Organisation establishing its  own social security scheme, the Organisation  and the employees of the European Patent  Office shall be exempt from all compulsory contributions to national social security schemes,  subject to the agreements made with the Contracting States in accordance with the provisions of Article 25.
19
(1)  The privileges and immunities provided for  in this Protocol are not designed to give to  employees of the European Patent Office or  experts performing functions for or on behalf of  the Organisation personal advantage. They are  provided solely to ensure, in all circumstances,  the unimpeded functioning of the Organisation  and the complete independence of the persons  to whom they are accorded.
(2)  The President of the European Patent  Office has the duty to waive immunity where he  considers that such immunity prevents the normal course of justice and that it is possible to  dispense with such immunity without prejudicing the interests of the Organisation. The  Administrative Council may waive immunity of  the President for the same reasons.
20
(1)  The Organisation shall co-operate at all  times with the competent authorities of the Contracting States in order to facilitate the proper  administration of justice, to ensure the observance of police regulations and regulations  concerning public health, labour inspection or  other similar national legislation, and to prevent  any abuse of the privileges, immunities and  facilities provided for in this Protocol.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(2)  The procedure of co-operation mentioned  in paragraph 1 may be laid down in the complementary agreements referred to in Article 25.
21
Each Contracting State retains the right to take  all precautions necessary in the interests of its  security.
22
No Contracting State is obliged to extend the  privileges and immunities referred to in Article 12,  Article 13,  Article 14,  sub-paragraphs (b),  (e)  and  (g),  and  Article 15,  sub-paragraph (c), to:
(a)  its own nationals;
(b)  any person who at the time of taking up  his functions with the Organisation has his permanent residence in that State and is not an  employee of any other inter-governmental  organisation whose staff is incorporated into the  Organisation.
23
(1)  Any Contracting State may submit to an  international arbitration tribunal any dispute  concerning the Organisation or an employee of  the European Patent Office or an expert performing functions for or on its behalf, in so far  as the Organisation or the employees and  experts have claimed a privilege or an immunity  under this Protocol in circumstances where that  immunity has not been waived.
(2)  If a Contracting State intends to submit a  dispute to arbitration, it shall notify the Chairman of the Administrative Council, who shall  forthwith inform each Contracting State of such  notification.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(3)  The procedure laid down in paragraph 1 of  this Article shall not apply to disputes between  the Organisation and the employees or experts  in respect of the Service Regulations or conditions of employment or, with regard to the  employees, the Pension Scheme Regulations.
(4)  No appeal shall lie against the award of  the arbitration tribunal, which shall be final; it  shall be binding on the parties. In case of dispute concerning the import or scope of the  award, it shall be incumbent upon the arbitration tribunal to interpret it on request by either  party.
24
(1)  The arbitration tribunal referred to in Article 23 shall consist of three members, one arbitrator nominated by the State or States party to  the arbitration, one arbitrator nominated by the  Administrative Council and a third arbitrator,  who shall be the chairman, nominated by the  said two arbitrators.
(2)  The arbitrators shall be nominated from a  panel comprising no more than six arbitrators  appointed by each Contracting State and six  arbitrators appointed by the Administrative  Council. This panel shall be established as  soon as possible after the Protocol enters into  force and shall be revised each time this proves  necessary.

Protocol on Privileges and Immunities
(3)  If, within three months from the date of the  notification referred to in Article 23, paragraph 2, either party fails to make the  nomination referred to in paragraph 1 above,  the choice of the arbitrator shall, on request of  the other party, be made by the President of the  International Court of Justice from the persons  included in the said panel. This shall also apply,  when so requested by either party, if within one  month from the date of appointment of the second arbitrator, the first two arbitrators are  unable to agree on the nomination of the third  arbitrator. However, if, in these two cases, the  President of the International Court of Justice is  prevented from making the choice, or if he is a  national of one of the States parties to the dispute, the Vice-President of the International  Court of Justice shall make the aforementioned  appointments, provided that he himself is not a  national of one of the States parties to the  dispute; if such is the case, the member of the  International Court of Justice who is not a  national of one of the States parties to the  dispute and who has been chosen by the  President or Vice-President shall make the  appointments. A national of the State applying  for arbitration may not be chosen to fill the post  of the arbitrator whose appointment devolves  on the Administrative Council nor may a person  included in the panel and appointed by the  Administrative Council be chosen to fill the post  of an arbitrator whose appointment devolves on  the State which is the claimant. Nor may a  person of either of these categories be chosen  as chairman of the Tribunal.
(4)  The arbitration tribunal shall draw up its own rules of procedure.
25
The Organisation may, on a decision of the  Administrative Council, conclude with one or  more  Contracting  States  complementary  agreements to give effect to the provisions of  this Protocol as regards such State or States,  and other arrangements to ensure the efficient  functioning of the Organisation and the safeguarding of its interests.

Protocol on Staff Complement
The European Patent Organisation shall ensure  that the proportion of European Patent Office  posts assigned to the duty station at The Hague  as defined under the 2000 establishment plan  and table of posts remains substantially  unchanged. Any change in the number of posts  assigned to the duty station at The Hague  resulting in a deviation of more than ten per  cent of that proportion, which proves necessary  for the proper functioning of the European Patent Office, shall be subject to a decision by the  Administrative Council of the Organisation on a  proposal from the President of the European  Patent Office after consultation with the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany  and the Kingdom of the Netherlands.2

Act revising the EPC
Preamble
THE CONTRACTING STATES TO THE EUROPEAN PATENT CONVENTION,
CONSIDERING that the co-operation of the  countries of Europe on the basis of the European Patent Convention and the single procedure  for the grant of patents thereby established  renders a significant contribution to the legal  and economic integration of Europe,
WISHING to promote innovation and economic  growth in Europe still more effectively by laying  foundations for the further development of the  European patent system,
DESIRING, in the light of the increasingly international character of the patent system, to  adapt the  to the  technological and legal developments which  have occurred since it was concluded,
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
272 Amendment of the European Patent  Convention
The  shall be  amended as follows:
...   (1.   The following Articles have been inserted: Articles 4a, 105a, 105b, 105c, 112a, 134a and  149a.

Act revising the EPC
273 37, 38, 42, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 60, 61, 65, 67, 68, 69, 70, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 86, 87, 88, 90, 92, 93, 94, 97, 98, 99, 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 108, 110, 115, 117, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 127, 128, 129, 130, 133, 134, 135, 137, 138, 140, 141, 150, 151, 152, 153 and  164.
274 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163 and  167.)
275 Protocols
...   (1.   Amendment of the Protocol on the Interpretation of Article 69 EPC   and   Section I of the Protocol on the Centralisation of  the European Patent System and on its Introduction (Protocol on Centralisation).

Act revising the EPC
276 New text of the Convention
(1)  The Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation is hereby authorised to  draw up, at the proposal of the President of the  European Patent Office, a new text of the European Patent Convention. In the new text, the  wording of the provisions of the Convention  shall be aligned, where necessary, in the three  official languages. The provisions of the Convention may also be renumbered consecutively  and the references to other provisions of the  Convention may be amended in accordance  with the new numbering.
(2)  The Administrative Council shall adopt the  new text of the Convention by a majority of  three quarters of the Contracting States represented and voting. On its adoption, the new text  of the Convention shall become an integral part  of this Revision Act.
277 Signature and ratification
(1)  This Revision Act shall be open for signature by the Contracting States at the European  Patent Office in Munich until 1 September 2001.
(2)  This Revision Act shall be subject to ratification; instruments of ratification shall be  deposited with the Government of the Federal  Republic of Germany.
278 Accession
(1)  This Revision Act shall be open, until its  entry into force, to accession by the Contracting  States to the Convention and the States which  ratify the Convention or accede thereto.

Act revising the EPC
(2)  Instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany.
279 Provisional application
1, i
280 Transitional provisions
(1)  The revised version of the Convention  shall apply to all European patent applications filed after its entry into force, as well as to all  patents granted in respect of such applications.  It shall not apply to European patents already  granted at the time of its entry into force, or to  European patent applications pending at that  time, unless otherwise decided by the Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation.
(2)  The Administrative Council of the European Patent Organisation shall take a decision  under paragraph 1 no later than 30 June 2001,  by a majority of three quarters of the Contracting States represented and voting. Such decision shall become an integral part of this Revision Act.

Act revising the EPC
281 Entry into force4
(1)  The revised text of the European Patent  Convention shall enter into force two years after  the fifteenth Contracting State has deposited its  instrument of ratification or accession, or on the  first day of the third month following the deposit  of the instrument of ratification or accession by  the Contracting State taking this step as the last  of all the Contracting States, if this takes place  earlier.
(2)  Upon entry into force of the revised text of  the Convention, the text valid until that time  shall cease to apply.
282 Transmission and notifications
(1)  The Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany shall draw up certified true copies  of this Revision Act and shall transmit them to  the governments of the Contracting States and  of the States able to accede to the European  Patent Convention under Article 166, paragraph 1.
(2)  The Government of the Federal Republic  of Germany shall notify the governments  referred to in paragraph 1 concerning:
(a)  the deposit of any instrument of ratification  or accession;
(b)  the date of entry into force of this Revision  Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plenipotentiaries  authorised thereto, having presented their Full  Powers, found to be in good and due form,  have signed this Revision Act.

Act revising the EPC
DONE at Munich this twenty-ninth day of  November two thousand in a single original in  the English, French and German languages,  the three texts being equally authentic. This  original text shall be deposited in the archives  of the Federal Republic of Germany.