Article 1 
Establishment of a Union 
(1)  The States party to this Treaty (hereinafter called “the Contracting 
States”) constitute a Union for cooperation in the filing, searching, and 
examination, of applications for the protection of inventions, and for rendering 
special technical services.  The Union shall be known as the International Patent 
Cooperation Union. 
(2)  No provision of this Treaty shall be interpreted as diminishing the rights 
under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of any 
national or resident of any country party to that Convention. 

Article 2 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Treaty and the Regulations and unless expressly 
stated otherwise: 
(i) “application” means an application for the protection of an 
invention;  references to an “application” shall be construed as references to 
applications for patents for inventions, inventors’ certificates, utility certificates, 
utility models, patents or certificates of addition, inventors’ certificates of 
addition, and utility certificates of addition; 
(ii) references to a “patent” shall be construed as references to patents 
for inventions, inventors’ certificates, utility certificates, utility models, patents 
or certificates of addition, inventors’ certificates of addition, and utility 
certificates of addition; 
(iii) “national patent” means a patent granted by a national authority; 
(iv) “regional patent” means a patent granted by a national or an 
intergovernmental authority having the power to grant patents effective in more 
than one State; 
(v) “regional application” means an application for a regional patent; 
(vi) references to a “national application” shall be construed as 
references to applications for national patents and regional patents, other than 
applications filed under this Treaty; 
(vii) “international application” means an application filed under this 
Treaty; 
(viii) references to an “application” shall be construed as references to 
international applications and national applications; 
(ix) references to a “patent” shall be construed as references to national 
patents and regional patents; 
(x) references to “national law” shall be construed as references to the 
national law of a Contracting State or, where a regional application or a regional 
patent is involved, to the treaty providing for the filing of regional applications 
or the granting of regional patents; 
(xi) “priority date,” for the purposes of computing time limits, means: 
(a)  where the international application contains a priority claim 
under Article 8, the filing date of the application whose priority is so claimed; 
(b)  where the international application contains several priority 
claims under Article 8, the filing date of the earliest application whose priority 
is so claimed; 
(c)  where the international application does not contain any priority 
claim under Article 8, the international filing date of such application; 
(xii) “national Office” means the government authority of a Contracting 
State entrusted with the granting of patents;  references to a “national Office” 
shall be construed as referring also to any intergovernmental authority which 
several States have entrusted with the task of granting regional patents, 
provided that at least one of those States is a Contracting State, and provided 
that the said States have authorized that authority to assume the obligations and 
exercise the powers which this Treaty and the Regulations provide for in respect 
of national Offices; 
(xiii) “designated Office” means the national Office of or acting for the 
State designated by the applicant under Chapter I of this Treaty; 
(xiv) “elected Office” means the national Office of or acting for the State 
elected by the applicant under Chapter II of this Treaty; 
(xv) “receiving 
Office” 
means 
the 
national 
Office 
or 
the 
intergovernmental organization with which the international application has 
been filed; 
(xvi) “Union” means the International Patent Cooperation Union; 
(xvii) “Assembly” means the Assembly of the Union; 
(xviii) “Organization” means the World Intellectual Property Organization; 
(xix) “International Bureau” means the International Bureau of the 
Organization and, as long as it subsists, the United International Bureaux for the 
Protection of Intellectual Property (BIRPI); 
(xx) “Director General” means the Director General of the Organization 
and, as long as BIRPI subsists, the Director of BIRPI. 

Article 3 
The International Application 
(1)  Applications for the protection of inventions in any of the Contracting 
States may be filed as international applications under this Treaty. 
(2)  An international application shall contain, as specified in this Treaty and 
the Regulations, a request, a description, one or more claims, one or more 
drawings (where required), and an abstract. 
(3)  The abstract merely serves the purpose of technical information and 
cannot be taken into account for any other purpose, particularly not for the 
purpose of interpreting the scope of the protection sought. 
(4)  The international application shall: 
(i) be in a prescribed language; 
(ii) comply with the prescribed physical requirements; 
(iii) comply with the prescribed requirement of unity of invention; 
(iv) be subject to the payment of the prescribed fees. 

Article 4 
The Request 
(1)  The request shall contain: 
(i) a petition to the effect that the international application be processed 
according to this Treaty; 
(ii) the designation of the Contracting State or States in which protection 
for the invention is desired on the basis of the international application 
(“designated States”);  if for any designated State a regional patent is available 
and the applicant wishes to obtain a regional patent rather than a national 
patent, the request shall so indicate;  if, under a treaty concerning a regional 
patent, the applicant cannot limit his application to certain of the States party to 
that treaty, designation of one of those States and the indication of the wish to 
obtain the regional patent shall be treated as designation of all the States party 
to that treaty;  if, under the national law of the designated State, the designation 
of that State has the effect of an application for a regional patent, the 
designation of the said State shall be treated as an indication of the wish to 
obtain the regional patent; 
(iii) the name of and other prescribed data concerning the applicant and 
the agent (if any); 
(iv) the title of the invention; 
(v) the name of and other prescribed data concerning the inventor where 
the national law of at least one of the designated States requires that these 
indications be furnished at the time of filing a national application.  Otherwise, 
the said indications may be furnished either in the request or in separate notices 
addressed to each designated Office whose national law requires the furnishing 
of the said indications but allows that they be furnished at a time later than that 
of the filing of a national application. 
(2)  Every designation shall be subject to the payment of the prescribed fee 
within the prescribed time limit. 
(3)  Unless the applicant asks for any of the other kinds of protection 
referred to in Article 43, designation shall mean that the desired protection 
consists of the grant of a patent by or for the designated State.  For the purposes 
of this paragraph, Article 2(ii) shall not apply. 
(4)  Failure to indicate in the request the name and other prescribed data 
concerning the inventor shall have no consequence in any designated State 
whose national law requires the furnishing of the said indications but allows 
that they be furnished at a time later than that of the filing of a national 
application.  Failure to furnish the said indications in a separate notice shall 
have no consequence in any designated State whose national law does not 
require the furnishing of the said indications. 

Article 5 
The Description 
The description shall disclose the invention in a manner sufficiently clear 
and complete for the invention to be carried out by a person skilled in the art. 

Article 6 
The Claims 
The claim or claims shall define the matter for which protection is sought.  
Claims shall be clear and concise.  They shall be fully supported by the 
description. 

Article 7 
The Drawings 
(1)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2)(ii), drawings shall be required 
when they are necessary for the understanding of the invention. 
(2)  Where, without being necessary for the understanding of the invention, 
the nature of the invention admits of illustration by drawings: 
(i) the applicant may include such drawings in the international 
application when filed, 
(ii) any designated Office may require that the applicant file such 
drawings with it within the prescribed time limit. 

Article 8 
Claiming Priority 
(1)  The international application may contain a declaration, as prescribed in 
the Regulations, claiming the priority of one or more earlier applications filed in 
or for any country party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial 
Property. 
(2)(a)  Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b), the conditions for, and 
the effect of, any priority claim declared under paragraph (1) shall be as 
provided in Article 4 of the Stockholm Act of the Paris Convention for the 
Protection of Industrial Property. 
(b)  The international application for which the priority of one or more 
earlier applications filed in or for a Contracting State is claimed may contain the 
designation of that State.  Where, in the international application, the priority of 
one or more national applications filed in or for a designated State is claimed, or 
where the priority of an international application having designated only one 
State is claimed, the conditions for, and the effect of, the priority claim in that 
State shall be governed by the national law of that State. 

Article 9 
The Applicant 
(1)  Any resident or national of a Contracting State may file an international 
application. 
(2)  The Assembly may decide to allow the residents and the nationals of 
any country party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial 
Property which is not party to this Treaty to file international applications. 
(3)  The concepts of residence and nationality, and the application of those 
concepts in cases where there are several applicants or where the applicants are 
not the same for all the designated States, are defined in the Regulations. 

Article 10 
The Receiving Office 
The international application shall be filed with the prescribed receiving 
Office, which will check and process it as provided in this Treaty and the 
Regulations. 

Article 11 
Filing Date and Effects of the International Application 
(1)  The receiving Office shall accord as the international filing date the date 
of receipt of the international application, provided that that Office has found 
that, at the time of receipt: 
(i) the applicant does not obviously lack, for reasons of residence or 
nationality, the right to file an international application with the receiving 
Office, 
(ii) the international application is in the prescribed language, 
(iii) the international application contains at least the following elements: 
(a)  an indication that it is intended as an international application, 
(b)  the designation of at least one Contracting State, 
(c)  the name of the applicant, as prescribed, 
(d)  a part which on the face of it appears to be a description, 
(e)  a part which on the face of it appears to be a claim or claims. 
(2)(a)  If the receiving Office finds that the international application did not, 
at the time of receipt, fulfill the requirements listed in paragraph (1), it shall, as 
provided in the Regulations, invite the applicant to file the required correction. 
(b)  If the applicant complies with the invitation, as provided in the 
Regulations, the receiving Office shall accord as the international filing date the 
date of receipt of the required correction. 
(3)  Subject to Article 64(4), any international application fulfilling the 
requirements listed in items (i) to (iii) of paragraph (1) and accorded an 
international filing date shall have the effect of a regular national application in 
each designated State as of the international filing date, which date shall be 
considered to be the actual filing date in each designated State. 
(4)  Any international application fulfilling the requirements listed in 
items (i) to (iii) of paragraph (1) shall be equivalent to a regular national filing 
within the meaning of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial 
Property. 

Article 12 
Transmittal of the International Application to the  
International Bureau and the International Searching Authority 
(1)  One copy of the international application shall be kept by the receiving 
Office (“home copy”), one copy (“record copy”) shall be transmitted to the 
International Bureau, and another copy (“search copy”) shall be transmitted to 
the competent International Searching Authority referred to in Article 16, as 
provided in the Regulations. 
(2)  The record copy shall be considered the true copy of the international 
application. 
(3)  The international application shall be considered withdrawn if the 
record copy has not been received by the International Bureau within the 
prescribed time limit. 

Article 13 
Availability of Copy of the  
International Application to Designated Offices 
(1)  Any designated Office may ask the International Bureau to transmit to it 
a copy of the international application prior to the communication provided for 
in Article 20, and the International Bureau shall transmit such copy to the 
designated Office as soon as possible after the expiration of one year from the 
priority date. 
(2)(a)  The applicant may, at any time, transmit a copy of his international 
application to any designated Office. 
(b)  The applicant may, at any time, ask the International Bureau to 
transmit a copy of his international application to any designated Office, and the 
International Bureau shall transmit such copy to the designated Office as soon 
as possible. 
(c)  Any national Office may notify the International Bureau that it does 
not wish to receive copies as provided for in subparagraph (b), in which case 
that subparagraph shall not be applicable in respect of that Office. 

Article 14 
Certain Defects in the International Application 
(1)(a)  The receiving Office shall check whether the international application 
contains any of the following defects, that is to say: 
(i) it is not signed as provided in the Regulations; 
(ii) it does not contain the prescribed indications concerning the 
applicant; 
(iii) it does not contain a title; 
(iv) it does not contain an abstract; 
(v) it does not comply to the extent provided in the Regulations with 
the prescribed physical requirements. 
(b)  If the receiving Office finds any of the said defects, it shall invite the 
applicant to correct the international application within the prescribed time 
limit, failing which that application shall be considered withdrawn and the 
receiving Office shall so declare. 
(2)  If the international application refers to drawings which, in fact, are not 
included in that application, the receiving Office shall notify the applicant 
accordingly and he may furnish them within the prescribed time limit and, if he 
does, the international filing date shall be the date on which the drawings are 
received by the receiving Office.  Otherwise, any reference to the said drawings 
shall be considered non-existent. 
(3)(a)  If the receiving Office finds that, within the prescribed time limits, 
the fees prescribed under Article 3(4)(iv) have not been paid, or no fee 
prescribed under Article 4(2) has been paid in respect of any of the designated 
States, the international application shall be considered withdrawn and the 
receiving Office shall so declare. 
(b)  If the receiving Office finds that the fee prescribed under Article 4(2) 
has been paid in respect of one or more (but less than all) designated States 
within the prescribed time limit, the designation of those States in respect of 
which it has not been paid within the prescribed time limit shall be considered 
withdrawn and the receiving Office shall so declare. 
(4)  If, after having accorded an international filing date to the international 
application, the receiving Office finds, within the prescribed time limit, that any 
of the requirements listed in items (i) to (iii) of Article 11(1) was not complied 
with at that date, the said application shall be considered withdrawn and the 
receiving Office shall so declare. 

Article 15 
The International Search 
(1)  Each international application shall be the subject of international 
search. 
(2)  The objective of the international search is to discover relevant prior art. 
(3)  International search shall be made on the basis of the claims, with due 
regard to the description and the drawings (if any). 
(4)  The International Searching Authority referred to in Article 16 shall 
endeavor to discover as much of the relevant prior art as its facilities permit, and 
shall, in any case, consult the documentation specified in the Regulations. 
(5)(a)  If the national law of the Contracting State so permits, the applicant 
who files a national application with the national Office of or acting for such 
State may, subject to the conditions provided for in such law, request that a 
search similar to an international search (“international-type search”) be carried 
out on such application. 
(b)  If the national law of the Contracting State so permits, the national 
Office of or acting for such State may subject any national application filed with 
it to an international-type search. 
(c)  The international-type search shall be carried out by the International 
Searching Authority referred to in Article 16 which would be competent for an 
international search if the national application were an international application 
and were filed with the Office referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b).  If the 
national application is in a language which the International Searching 
Authority considers it is not equipped to handle, the international-type search 
shall be carried out on a translation prepared by the applicant in a language 
prescribed for international applications and which the International Searching 
Authority has undertaken to accept for international applications.  The national 
application and the translation, when required, shall be presented in the form 
prescribed for international applications. 

Article 16 
The International Searching Authority 
(1)  International search shall be carried out by an International Searching 
Authority, which may be either a national Office or an intergovernmental 
organization, such as the International Patent Institute, whose tasks include the 
establishing of documentary search reports on prior art with respect to 
inventions which are the subject of applications. 
(2)  If, pending the establishment of a single International Searching 
Authority, there are several International Searching Authorities, each receiving 
Office shall, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable agreement 
referred to in paragraph (3)(b), specify the International Searching Authority or 
Authorities competent for the searching of international applications filed with 
such Office. 
(3)(a)  International Searching Authorities shall be appointed by the 
Assembly.  Any national Office and any intergovernmental organization 
satisfying the requirements referred to in subparagraph (c) may be appointed as 
International Searching Authority. 
(b)  Appointment shall be conditional on the consent of the national 
Office or intergovernmental organization to be appointed and the conclusion of 
an agreement, subject to approval by the Assembly, between such Office or 
organization and the International Bureau.  The agreement shall specify the 
rights and obligations of the parties, in particular, the formal undertaking by the 
said Office or organization to apply and observe all the common rules of 
international search. 
(c)  The Regulations prescribe the minimum requirements, particularly as 
to manpower and documentation, which any Office or organization must satisfy 
before it can be appointed and must continue to satisfy while it remains 
appointed. 
(d)  Appointment shall be for a fixed period of time and may be extended 
for further periods. 
(e)  Before the Assembly makes a decision on the appointment of any 
national Office or intergovernmental organization, or on the extension of its 
appointment, or before it allows any such appointment to lapse, the Assembly 
shall hear the interested Office or organization and seek the advice of the 
Committee for Technical Cooperation referred to in Article 56 once that 
Committee has been established. 

Article 17 
Procedure before the International Searching Authority 
(1)  Procedure before the International Searching Authority shall be 
governed by the provisions of this Treaty, the Regulations, and the agreement 
which the International Bureau shall conclude, subject to this Treaty and the 
Regulations, with the said Authority. 
(2)(a)  If the International Searching Authority considers 
(i) that the international application relates to a subject matter which 
the International Searching Authority is not required, under the 
Regulations, to search, and in the particular case decides not to 
search, or 
(ii) that the description, the claims, or the drawings, fail to comply 
with the prescribed requirements to such an extent that a 
meaningful search could not be carried out, 
the said Authority shall so declare and shall notify the applicant and the 
International Bureau that no international search report will be established. 
(b)  If any of the situations referred to in subparagraph (a) is found to 
exist in connection with certain claims only, the international search report shall 
so indicate in respect of such claims, whereas, for the other claims, the said 
report shall be established as provided in Article 18. 
(3)(a)  If the International Searching Authority considers that the 
international application does not comply with the requirement of unity of 
invention as set forth in the Regulations, it shall invite the applicant to pay 
additional fees.  The International Searching Authority shall establish the 
international search report on those parts of the international application which 
relate to the invention first mentioned in the claims (“main invention”) and, 
provided the required additional fees have been paid within the prescribed time 
limit, on those parts of the international application which relate to inventions in 
respect of which the said fees were paid. 
(b)  The national law of any designated State may provide that, where the 
national Office of that State finds the invitation, referred to in subparagraph (a), 
of the International Searching Authority justified and where the applicant has 
not paid all additional fees, those parts of the international application which 
consequently have not been searched shall, as far as effects in that State are 
concerned, be considered withdrawn unless a special fee is paid by the applicant 
to the national Office of that State. 

Article 18 
The International Search Report 
(1)  The international search report shall be established within the prescribed 
time limit and in the prescribed form. 
(2)  The international search report shall, as soon as it has been established, 
be transmitted by the International Searching Authority to the applicant and the 
International Bureau. 
(3)  The international search report or the declaration referred to in 
Article 17(2)(a) shall be translated as provided in the Regulations.  The 
translations shall be prepared by or under the responsibility of the International 
Bureau. 

Article 19 
Amendment of the Claims before the International Bureau 
(1)  The applicant shall, after having received the international search report, 
be entitled to one opportunity to amend the claims of the international 
application by filing amendments with the International Bureau within the 
prescribed time limit.  He may, at the same time, file a brief statement, as 
provided in the Regulations, explaining the amendments and indicating any 
impact that such amendments might have on the description and the drawings. 
(2)  The amendments shall not go beyond the disclosure in the international 
application as filed. 
(3)  If the national law of any designated State permits amendments to go 
beyond the said disclosure, failure to comply with paragraph (2) shall have no 
consequence in that State. 

Article 20 
Communication to Designated Offices 
(1)(a)  The international application, together with the international search 
report (including any indication referred to in Article 17(2)(b)) or the 
declaration referred to in Article 17(2)(a), shall be communicated to each 
designated Office, as provided in the Regulations, unless the designated Office 
waives such requirement in its entirety or in part. 
(b)  The communication shall include the translation (as prescribed) of 
the said report or declaration. 
(2)  If the claims have been amended by virtue of Article 19(1), the 
communication shall either contain the full text of the claims both as filed and 
as amended or shall contain the full text of the claims as filed and specify the 
amendments, and shall include the statement, if any, referred to in Article 19(1). 
(3)  At the request of the designated Office or the applicant, the International 
Searching Authority shall send to the said Office or the applicant, respectively, 
copies of the documents cited in the international search report, as provided in 
the Regulations. 

Article 21 
International Publication 
(1)  The International Bureau shall publish international applications. 
(2)(a)  Subject to the exceptions provided for in subparagraph (b) and in 
Article 64(3), the international publication of the international application shall 
be effected promptly after the expiration of 18 months from the priority date of 
that application. 
(b)  The applicant may ask the International Bureau to publish his 
international application any time before the expiration of the time limit referred 
to in subparagraph (a).  The International Bureau shall proceed accordingly, as 
provided in the Regulations. 
(3)  The international search report or the declaration referred to in 
Article 17(2)(a) shall be published as prescribed in the Regulations. 
(4)  The language and form of the international publication and other details 
are governed by the Regulations. 
(5)  There shall be no international publication if the international 
application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn before the technical 
preparations for publication have been completed. 
(6)  If the international application contains expressions or drawings which, 
in the opinion of the International Bureau, are contrary to morality or public 
order, or if, in its opinion, the international application contains disparaging 
statements as defined in the Regulations, it may omit such expressions, 
drawings, and statements, from its publications, indicating the place and number 
of words or drawings omitted, and furnishing, upon request, individual copies 
of the passages omitted. 

Article 22 
Copy, Translation, and Fee, to Designated Offices 
(1)  The applicant shall furnish a copy of the international application 
(unless the communication provided for in Article 20 has already taken place) 
and a translation thereof (as prescribed), and pay the national fee (if any), to 
each designated Office not later than at the expiration of 301 months from the 
priority date.  Where the national law of the designated State requires the 
indication of the name of and other prescribed data concerning the inventor but 
allows that these indications be furnished at a time later than that of the filing of 
a national application, the applicant shall, unless they were contained in the 
request, furnish the said indications to the national Office of or acting for the 
State not later than at the expiration of 301 months from the priority date. 
(2)  Where the International Searching Authority makes a declaration, under 
Article 17(2)(a), that no international search report will be established, the time 
limit for performing the acts referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be 
the same as that provided for in paragraph (1). 
(3)  Any national law may, for performing the acts referred to in 
paragraphs (1) or (2), fix time limits which expire later than the time limit 
provided for in those paragraphs. 

Article 23 
Delaying of National Procedure 
(1)  No designated Office shall process or examine the international 
application prior to the expiration of the applicable time limit under Article 22. 
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), any designated Office 
may, on the express request of the applicant, process or examine the 
international application at any time. 

Article 24 
Possible Loss of Effect in Designated States 
(1)  Subject, in case (ii) below, to the provisions of Article 25, the effect of 
the international application provided for in Article 11(3) shall cease in any 
designated State with the same consequences as the withdrawal of any national 
application in that State: 
(i) if the applicant withdraws his international application or the 
designation of that State; 
Editor’s Note:  The 30-month time limit, as in force from April 1, 2002, does not apply in 
respect of any designated Office which has notified the International Bureau of 
incompatibility with the national law applied by that Office.  The 20-month time limit, as in 
force until March 31, 2002, continues to apply after that date in respect of any such designated 
Office for as long as Article 22(1), as modified, continues not to be compatible with the 
applicable national law.  Information received by the International Bureau concerning any 
such incompatibility is published in the Gazette and on the WIPO website at:  
www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html. 
(ii) if the international application is considered withdrawn by virtue of 
Articles 12(3), 14(1)(b), 14(3)(a), or 14(4), or if the designation of that State is 
considered withdrawn by virtue of Article 14(3)(b); 
(iii) if the applicant fails to perform the acts referred to in Article 22 
within the applicable time limit. 
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), any designated Office 
may maintain the effect provided for in Article 11(3) even where such effect is 
not required to be maintained by virtue of Article 25(2). 

Article 25 
Review by Designated Offices 
(1)(a)  Where the receiving Office has refused to accord an international 
filing date or has declared that the international application is considered 
withdrawn, or where the International Bureau has made a finding under 
Article 12(3), the International Bureau shall promptly send, at the request of the 
applicant, copies of any document in the file to any of the designated Offices 
named by the applicant. 
(b)  Where the receiving Office has declared that the designation of any 
given State is considered withdrawn, the International Bureau shall promptly 
send, at the request of the applicant, copies of any document in the file to the 
national Office of such State. 
(c)  The request under subparagraphs (a) or (b) shall be presented within 
the prescribed time limit. 
(2)(a)  Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b), each designated Office 
shall, provided that the national fee (if any) has been paid and the appropriate 
translation (as prescribed) has been furnished within the prescribed time limit, 
decide whether the refusal, declaration, or finding, referred to in paragraph (1) 
was justified under the provisions of this Treaty and the Regulations, and, if it 
finds that the refusal or declaration was the result of an error or omission on the 
part of the receiving Office or that the finding was the result of an error or 
omission on the part of the International Bureau, it shall, as far as effects in the 
State of the designated Office are concerned, treat the international application 
as if such error or omission had not occurred. 
(b)  Where the record copy has reached the International Bureau after the 
expiration of the time limit prescribed under Article 12(3) on account of any 
error or omission on the part of the applicant, the provisions of subparagraph (a) 
shall apply only under the circumstances referred to in Article 48(2). 

Article 26 
Opportunity to Correct before Designated Offices 
No designated Office shall reject an international application on the grounds 
of non-compliance with the requirements of this Treaty and the Regulations 
without first giving the applicant the opportunity to correct the said application 
to the extent and according to the procedure provided by the national law for the 
same or comparable situations in respect of national applications. 

Article 27 
National Requirements 
(1)  No national law shall require compliance with requirements relating to 
the form or contents of the international application different from or additional 
to those which are provided for in this Treaty and the Regulations. 
(2)  The provisions of paragraph (1) neither affect the application of the 
provisions of Article 7(2) nor preclude any national law from requiring, once 
the processing of the international application has started in the designated 
Office, the furnishing: 
(i) when the applicant is a legal entity, of the name of an officer entitled 
to represent such legal entity, 
(ii) of documents not part of the international application but which 
constitute proof of allegations or statements made in that application, including 
the confirmation of the international application by the signature of the 
applicant when that application, as filed, was signed by his representative or 
agent. 
(3)  Where the applicant, for the purposes of any designated State, is not 
qualified according to the national law of that State to file a national application 
because he is not the inventor, the international application may be rejected by 
the designated Office. 
(4)  Where the national law provides, in respect of the form or contents of 
national applications, for requirements which, from the viewpoint of applicants, 
are more favorable than the requirements provided for by this Treaty and the 
Regulations in respect of international applications, the national Office, the 
courts and any other competent organs of or acting for the designated State may 
apply the former requirements, instead of the latter requirements, to 
international applications, except where the applicant insists that the 
requirements provided for by this Treaty and the Regulations be applied to his 
international application. 
(5)  Nothing in this Treaty and the Regulations is intended to be construed 
as prescribing anything that would limit the freedom of each Contracting State 
to prescribe such substantive conditions of patentability as it desires.  In 
particular, any provision in this Treaty and the Regulations concerning the 
definition of prior art is exclusively for the purposes of the international 
procedure and, consequently, any Contracting State is free to apply, when 
determining the patentability of an invention claimed in an international 
application, the criteria of its national law in respect of prior art and other 
conditions of patentability not constituting requirements as to the form and 
contents of applications. 
(6)  The national law may require that the applicant furnish evidence in 
respect of any substantive condition of patentability prescribed by such law. 
(7)  Any receiving Office or, once the processing of the international 
application has started in the designated Office, that Office may apply the 
national law as far as it relates to any requirement that the applicant be 
represented by an agent having the right to represent applicants before the said 
Office and/or that the applicant have an address in the designated State for the 
purpose of receiving notifications. 
(8)  Nothing in this Treaty and the Regulations is intended to be construed 
as limiting the freedom of any Contracting State to apply measures deemed 
necessary for the preservation of its national security or to limit, for the 
protection of the general economic interests of that State, the right of its own 
residents or nationals to file international applications. 

Article 28 
Amendment of the Claims, the Description,  
and the Drawings, before Designated Offices 
(1)  The applicant shall be given the opportunity to amend the claims, the 
description, and the drawings, before each designated Office within the 
prescribed time limit.  No designated Office shall grant a patent, or refuse the 
grant of a patent, before such time limit has expired except with the express 
consent of the applicant. 
(2)  The amendments shall not go beyond the disclosure in the international 
application as filed unless the national law of the designated State permits them 
to go beyond the said disclosure. 
(3)  The amendments shall be in accordance with the national law of the 
designated State in all respects not provided for in this Treaty and the 
Regulations. 
(4)  Where the designated Office requires a translation of the international 
application, the amendments shall be in the language of the translation. 

Article 29 
Effects of the International Publication 
(1)  As far as the protection of any rights of the applicant in a designated 
State is concerned, the effects, in that State, of the international publication of 
an international application shall, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) 
to (4), be the same as those which the national law of the designated State 
provides for the compulsory national publication of unexamined national 
applications as such. 
(2)  If the language in which the international publication has been effected 
is different from the language in which publications under the national law are 
effected in the designated State, the said national law may provide that the 
effects provided for in paragraph (1) shall be applicable only from such time as: 
(i) a translation into the latter language has been published as provided 
by the national law, or 
(ii) a translation into the latter language has been made available to the 
public, by laying open for public inspection as provided by the national law, or 
(iii) a translation into the latter language has been transmitted by the 
applicant to the actual or prospective unauthorized user of the invention claimed 
in the international application, or 
(iv) both the acts described in (i) and (iii), or both the acts described 
in (ii) and (iii), have taken place. 
(3)  The national law of any designated State may provide that, where the 
international publication has been effected, on the request of the applicant, 
before the expiration of 18 months from the priority date, the effects provided 
for in paragraph (1) shall be applicable only from the expiration of 18 months 
from the priority date. 
(4)  The national law of any designated State may provide that the effects 
provided for in paragraph (1) shall be applicable only from the date on which a 
copy of the international application as published under Article 21 has been 
received in the national Office of or acting for such State.  The said Office shall 
publish the date of receipt in its gazette as soon as possible. 

Article 30 
Confidential Nature of the International Application 
(1)(a)  Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b), the International 
Bureau and the International Searching Authorities shall not allow access by 
any person or authority to the international application before the international 
publication of that application, unless requested or authorized by the applicant. 
(b)  The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall not apply to any transmittal 
to the competent International Searching Authority, to transmittals provided for 
under Article 13, and to communications provided for under Article 20. 
(2)(a)  No national Office shall allow access to the international application 
by third parties, unless requested or authorized by the applicant, before the 
earliest of the following dates: 
(i) date of the international publication of the international 
application, 
(ii) date of the receipt of the communication of the international 
application under Article 20, 
(iii) date of the receipt of a copy of the international application under 
Article 22. 
(b)  The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall not prevent any national 
Office from informing third parties that it has been designated, or from 
publishing that fact.  Such information or publication may, however, contain 
only the following data:  identification of the receiving Office, name of the 
applicant, international filing date, international application number, and title of 
the invention. 
(c)  The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall not prevent any designated 
Office from allowing access to the international application for the purposes of 
the judicial authorities. 
(3)  The provisions of paragraph (2)(a) shall apply to any receiving Office 
except as far as transmittals provided for under Article 12(1) are concerned. 
(4)  For the purposes of this Article, the term “access” covers any means by 
which 
third 
parties 
may 
acquire 
cognizance, 
including 
individual 
communication and general publication, provided, however, that no national 
Office shall generally publish an international application or its translation 
before the international publication or, if international publication has not taken 
place by the expiration of 20 months from the priority date, before the 
expiration of 20 months from the said priority date. 

Article 31 
Demand for International Preliminary Examination 
(1)  On the demand of the applicant, his international application shall be the 
subject of an international preliminary examination as provided in the following 
provisions and the Regulations. 
(2)(a)  Any applicant who is a resident or national, as defined in the 
Regulations, of a Contracting State bound by Chapter II, and whose 
international application has been filed with the receiving Office of or acting for 
such State, may make a demand for international preliminary examination. 
(b)  The Assembly may decide to allow persons entitled to file 
international applications to make a demand for international preliminary 
examination even if they are residents or nationals of a State not party to this 
Treaty or not bound by Chapter II. 
(3)  The demand for international preliminary examination shall be made 
separately from the international application.  The demand shall contain the 
prescribed particulars and shall be in the prescribed language and form. 
(4)(a)  The demand shall indicate the Contracting State or States in which 
the applicant intends to use the results of the international preliminary 
examination (“elected States”).  Additional Contracting States may be elected 
later.  Election may relate only to Contracting States already designated under 
Article 4. 
(b)  Applicants referred to in paragraph (2)(a) may elect any Contracting 
State bound by Chapter II.  Applicants referred to in paragraph (2)(b) may elect 
only such Contracting States bound by Chapter II as have declared that they are 
prepared to be elected by such applicants. 
(5)  The demand shall be subject to the payment of the prescribed fees 
within the prescribed time limit. 
(6)(a)  The demand shall be submitted to the competent International 
Preliminary Examining Authority referred to in Article 32. 
(b)  Any later election shall be submitted to the International Bureau. 
(7)  Each elected Office shall be notified of its election. 

Article 32 
The International Preliminary Examining Authority 
(1)  International preliminary examination shall be carried out by the 
International Preliminary Examining Authority. 
(2)  In the case of demands referred to in Article 31(2)(a), the receiving 
Office, and, in the case of demands referred to in Article 31(2)(b), the 
Assembly, shall, in accordance with the applicable agreement between the 
interested International Preliminary Examining Authority or Authorities and the 
International Bureau, specify the International Preliminary Examining Authority 
or Authorities competent for the preliminary examination. 
(3)  The provisions of Article 16(3) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, in respect 
of International Preliminary Examining Authorities. 

Article 33 
The International Preliminary Examination 
(1)  The objective of the international preliminary examination is to 
formulate a preliminary and non-binding opinion on the questions whether the 
claimed invention appears to be novel, to involve an inventive step (to be 
non-obvious), and to be industrially applicable. 
(2)  For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed 
invention shall be considered novel if it is not anticipated by the prior art as 
defined in the Regulations. 
(3)  For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed 
invention shall be considered to involve an inventive step if, having regard to 
the prior art as defined in the Regulations, it is not, at the prescribed relevant 
date, obvious to a person skilled in the art. 
(4)  For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed 
invention shall be considered industrially applicable if, according to its nature, 
it can be made or used (in the technological sense) in any kind of industry.  
“Industry” shall be understood in its broadest sense, as in the Paris Convention 
for the Protection of Industrial Property. 
(5)  The criteria described above merely serve the purposes of international 
preliminary examination.  Any Contracting State may apply additional or 
different criteria for the purpose of deciding whether, in that State, the claimed 
invention is patentable or not. 
(6)  The international preliminary examination shall take into consideration 
all the documents cited in the international search report.  It may take into 
consideration any additional documents considered to be relevant in the 
particular case. 

Article 34 
Procedure before the International Preliminary Examining Authority 
(1)  Procedure before the International Preliminary Examining Authority 
shall be governed by the provisions of this Treaty, the Regulations, and the 
agreement which the International Bureau shall conclude, subject to this Treaty 
and the Regulations, with the said Authority. 
(2)(a)  The applicant shall have a right to communicate orally and in writing 
with the International Preliminary Examining Authority. 
(b)  The applicant shall have a right to amend the claims, the description, 
and the drawings, in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed time limit, 
before the international preliminary examination report is established.  The 
amendment shall not go beyond the disclosure in the international application as 
filed. 
(c)  The applicant shall receive at least one written opinion from the 
International Preliminary Examining Authority unless such Authority considers 
that all of the following conditions are fulfilled: 
(i) the invention satisfies the criteria set forth in Article 33(1), 
(ii) the international application complies with the requirements of 
this Treaty and the Regulations in so far as checked by that Authority, 
(iii) no observations are intended to be made under Article 35(2), last 
sentence. 
(d)  The applicant may respond to the written opinion. 
(3)(a)  If the International Preliminary Examining Authority considers that 
the international application does not comply with the requirement of unity of 
invention as set forth in the Regulations, it may invite the applicant, at his 
option, to restrict the claims so as to comply with the requirement or to pay 
additional fees. 
(b)  The national law of any elected State may provide that, where the 
applicant chooses to restrict the claims under subparagraph (a), those parts of 
the international application which, as a consequence of the restriction, are not 
to be the subject of international preliminary examination shall, as far as effects 
in that State are concerned, be considered withdrawn unless a special fee is paid 
by the applicant to the national Office of that State. 
(c)  If the applicant does not comply with the invitation referred to in 
subparagraph (a) within the prescribed time limit, the International Preliminary 
Examining Authority shall establish an international preliminary examination 
report on those parts of the international application which relate to what 
appears to be the main invention and shall indicate the relevant facts in the said 
report.  The national law of any elected State may provide that, where its 
national Office finds the invitation of the International Preliminary Examining 
Authority justified, those parts of the international application which do not 
relate to the main invention shall, as far as effects in that State are concerned, be 
considered withdrawn unless a special fee is paid by the applicant to that Office. 
(4)(a)  If the International Preliminary Examining Authority considers 
(i) that the international application relates to a subject matter on 
which the International Preliminary Examining Authority is not 
required, under the Regulations, to carry out an international 
preliminary examination, and in the particular case decides not to 
carry out such examination, or 
(ii) that the description, the claims, or the drawings, are so unclear, or 
the claims are so inadequately supported by the description, that 
no meaningful opinion can be formed on the novelty, inventive 
step (non-obviousness), or industrial applicability, of the claimed 
invention, 
the said Authority shall not go into the questions referred to in Article 33(1) and 
shall inform the applicant of this opinion and the reasons therefor. 
(b)  If any of the situations referred to in subparagraph (a) is found to 
exist in, or in connection with, certain claims only, the provisions of that 
subparagraph shall apply only to the said claims. 

Article 35 
The International Preliminary Examination Report 
(1)  The international preliminary examination report shall be established 
within the prescribed time limit and in the prescribed form. 
(2)  The international preliminary examination report shall not contain any 
statement on the question whether the claimed invention is or seems to be 
patentable or unpatentable according to any national law.  It shall state, subject 
to the provisions of paragraph (3), in relation to each claim, whether the claim 
appears to satisfy the criteria of novelty, inventive step (non-obviousness), and 
industrial applicability, as defined for the purposes of the international 
preliminary examination in Article 33(1) to (4).  The statement shall be 
accompanied by the citation of the documents believed to support the stated 
conclusion with such explanations as the circumstances of the case may require.  
The statement shall also be accompanied by such other observations as the 
Regulations provide for. 
(3)(a)  If, at the time of establishing the international preliminary 
examination report, the International Preliminary Examining Authority 
considers that any of the situations referred to in Article 34(4)(a) exists, that 
report shall state this opinion and the reasons therefor.  It shall not contain any 
statement as provided in paragraph (2). 
(b)  If a situation under Article 34(4)(b) is found to exist, the international 
preliminary examination report shall, in relation to the claims in question, 
contain the statement as provided in subparagraph (a), whereas, in relation to 
the other claims, it shall contain the statement as provided in paragraph (2). 

Article 36 
Transmittal, Translation, and Communication,  
of the International Preliminary Examination Report 
(1)  The international preliminary examination report, together with the 
prescribed annexes, shall be transmitted to the applicant and to the International 
Bureau. 
(2)(a)  The international preliminary examination report and its annexes 
shall be translated into the prescribed languages. 
(b)  Any translation of the said report shall be prepared by or under the 
responsibility of the International Bureau, whereas any translation of the said 
annexes shall be prepared by the applicant. 
(3)(a)  The international preliminary examination report, together with its 
translation (as prescribed) and its annexes (in the original language), shall be 
communicated by the International Bureau to each elected Office. 
(b)  The prescribed translation of the annexes shall be transmitted within 
the prescribed time limit by the applicant to the elected Offices. 
(4)  The provisions of Article 20(3) shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to copies 
of any document which is cited in the international preliminary examination 
report and which was not cited in the international search report. 

Article 37 
Withdrawal of Demand or Election 
(1)  The applicant may withdraw any or all elections. 
(2)  If the election of all elected States is withdrawn, the demand shall be 
considered withdrawn. 
(3)(a)  Any withdrawal shall be notified to the International Bureau. 
(b)  The elected Offices concerned and the International Preliminary 
Examining Authority concerned shall be notified accordingly by the 
International Bureau. 
(4)(a)  Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (b), withdrawal of the 
demand or of the election of a Contracting State shall, unless the national law of 
that State provides otherwise, be considered to be withdrawal of the 
international application as far as that State is concerned. 
(b)  Withdrawal of the demand or of the election shall not be considered 
to be withdrawal of the international application if such withdrawal is effected 
prior to the expiration of the applicable time limit under Article 22;  however, 
any Contracting State may provide in its national law that the aforesaid shall 
apply only if its national Office has received, within the said time limit, a copy 
of the international application, together with a translation (as prescribed), and 
the national fee. 

Article 38 
Confidential Nature of the International Preliminary Examination 
(1)  Neither the International Bureau nor the International Preliminary 
Examining Authority shall, unless requested or authorized by the applicant, 
allow access within the meaning, and with the proviso, of Article 30(4) to the 
file of the international preliminary examination by any person or authority at 
any time, except by the elected Offices once the international preliminary 
examination report has been established. 
(2)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) and Articles 36(1) and (3) 
and 37(3)(b), neither the International Bureau nor the International Preliminary 
Examining Authority shall, unless requested or authorized by the applicant, give 
information on the issuance or nonissuance of an international preliminary 
examination report and on the withdrawal or nonwithdrawal of the demand or of 
any election. 

Article 39 
Copy, Translation, and Fee, to Elected Offices 
(1)(a)  If the election of any Contracting State has been effected prior to the 
expiration of the 19th month from the priority date, the provisions of Article 22 
shall not apply to such State and the applicant shall furnish a copy of the 
international application (unless the communication under Article 20 has 
already taken place) and a translation thereof (as prescribed), and pay the 
national fee (if any), to each elected Office not later than at the expiration of 
30 months from the priority date. 
(b)  Any national law may, for performing the acts referred to in 
subparagraph (a), fix time limits which expire later than the time limit provided 
for in that subparagraph. 
(2)  The effect provided for in Article 11(3) shall cease in the elected State 
with the same consequences as the withdrawal of any national application in 
that State if the applicant fails to perform the acts referred to in paragraph (1)(a) 
within the time limit applicable under paragraph (1)(a) or (b). 
(3)  Any elected Office may maintain the effect provided for in Article 11(3) 
even where the applicant does not comply with the requirements provided for in 
paragraph (1)(a) or (b). 

Article 40 
Delaying of National Examination and Other Processing 
(1)  If the election of any Contracting State has been effected prior to the 
expiration of the 19th month from the priority date, the provisions of Article 23 
shall not apply to such State and the national Office of or acting for that State 
shall not proceed, subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), to the examination 
and other processing of the international application prior to the expiration of 
the applicable time limit under Article 39. 
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), any elected Office 
may, on the express request of the applicant, proceed to the examination and 
other processing of the international application at any time. 

Article 41 
Amendment of the Claims, the Description, 
and the Drawings, before Elected Offices 
(1)  The applicant shall be given the opportunity to amend the claims, the 
description, and the drawings, before each elected Office within the prescribed 
time limit.  No elected Office shall grant a patent, or refuse the grant of a patent, 
before such time limit has expired, except with the express consent of the 
applicant. 
(2)  The amendments shall not go beyond the disclosure in the international 
application as filed, unless the national law of the elected State permits them to 
go beyond the said disclosure. 
(3)  The amendments shall be in accordance with the national law of the 
elected State in all respects not provided for in this Treaty and the Regulations. 
(4)  Where an elected Office requires a translation of the international 
application, the amendments shall be in the language of the translation. 

Article 42 
Results of National Examination in Elected Offices 
No elected Office receiving the international preliminary examination report 
may require that the applicant furnish copies, or information on the contents, of 
any papers connected with the examination relating to the same international 
application in any other elected Office. 

Article 43 
Seeking Certain Kinds of Protection 
In respect of any designated or elected State whose law provides for the 
grant of inventors’ certificates, utility certificates, utility models, patents or 
certificates of addition, inventors’ certificates of addition, or utility certificates 
of addition, the applicant may indicate, as prescribed in the Regulations, that his 
international application is for the grant, as far as that State is concerned, of an 
inventor’s certificate, a utility certificate, or a utility model, rather than a patent, 
or that it is for the grant of a patent or certificate of addition, an inventor’s 
certificate of addition, or a utility certificate of addition, and the ensuing effect 
shall be governed by the applicant’s choice.  For the purposes of this Article 
and any Rule thereunder, Article 2(ii) shall not apply. 

Article 44 
Seeking Two Kinds of Protection 
In respect of any designated or elected State whose law permits an 
application, while being for the grant of a patent or one of the other kinds of 
protection referred to in Article 43, to be also for the grant of another of the said 
kinds of protection, the applicant may indicate, as prescribed in the Regulations, 
the two kinds of protection he is seeking, and the ensuing effect shall be 
governed by the applicant’s indications.  For the purposes of this Article, 
Article 2(ii) shall not apply. 

Article 45 
Regional Patent Treaties 
(1)  Any treaty providing for the grant of regional patents (“regional patent 
treaty”), and giving to all persons who, according to Article 9, are entitled to 
file international applications the right to file applications for such patents, may 
provide that international applications designating or electing a State party to 
both the regional patent treaty and the present Treaty may be filed as 
applications for such patents. 
(2)  The national law of the said designated or elected State may provide that 
any designation or election of such State in the international application shall 
have the effect of an indication of the wish to obtain a regional patent under the 
regional patent treaty. 

Article 46 
Incorrect Translation of the International Application 
If, because of an incorrect translation of the international application, the 
scope of any patent granted on that application exceeds the scope of the 
international application in its original language, the competent authorities of 
the Contracting State concerned may accordingly and retroactively limit the 
scope of the patent, and declare it null and void to the extent that its scope has 
exceeded the scope of the international application in its original language. 

Article 47 
Time Limits 
(1)  The details for computing time limits referred to in this Treaty are 
governed by the Regulations. 
(2)(a)  All time limits fixed in Chapters I and II of this Treaty may, outside 
any revision under Article 60, be modified by a decision of the Contracting 
States. 
(b)  Such decisions shall be made in the Assembly or through voting by 
correspondence and must be unanimous. 
(c)  The details of the procedure are governed by the Regulations. 

Article 48 
Delay in Meeting Certain Time Limits 
(1)  Where any time limit fixed in this Treaty or the Regulations is not met 
because of interruption in the mail service or unavoidable loss or delay in the 
mail, the time limit shall be deemed to be met in the cases and subject to the 
proof and other conditions prescribed in the Regulations. 
(2)(a)  Any Contracting State shall, as far as that State is concerned, excuse, 
for reasons admitted under its national law, any delay in meeting any time limit. 
(b)  Any Contracting State may, as far as that State is concerned, excuse, 
for reasons other than those referred to in subparagraph (a), any delay in 
meeting any time limit. 

Article 49 
Right to Practice before International Authorities 
Any attorney, patent agent, or other person, having the right to practice 
before the national Office with which the international application was filed, 
shall be entitled to practice before the International Bureau and the competent 
International Searching Authority and competent International Preliminary 
Examining Authority in respect of that application. 

Article 50 
Patent Information Services 
(1)  The International Bureau may furnish services by providing technical 
and any other pertinent information available to it on the basis of published 
documents, primarily patents and published applications (referred to in this 
Article as “the information services”). 
(2)  The International Bureau may provide these information services either 
directly or through one or more International Searching Authorities or other 
national or international specialized institutions, with which the International 
Bureau may reach agreement. 
(3)  The information services shall be operated in a way particularly 
facilitating the acquisition by Contracting States which are developing countries 
of technical knowledge and technology, including available published 
know-how. 
(4)  The information services shall be available to Governments of 
Contracting States and their nationals and residents.  The Assembly may decide 
to make these services available also to others. 
(5)(a)  Any service to Governments of Contracting States shall be furnished 
at cost, provided that, when the Government is that of a Contracting State which 
is a developing country, the service shall be furnished below cost if the 
difference can be covered from profit made on services furnished to others than 
Governments of Contracting States or from the sources referred to in 
Article 51(4). 
(b)  The cost referred to in subparagraph (a) is to be understood as cost 
over and above costs normally incident to the performance of the services of a 
national Office or the obligations of an International Searching Authority. 
(6)  The details concerning the implementation of the provisions of this 
Article shall be governed by decisions of the Assembly and, within the limits to 
be fixed by the Assembly, such working groups as the Assembly may set up for 
that purpose. 
(7)  The Assembly shall, when it considers it necessary, recommend 
methods of providing financing supplementary to those referred to in 
paragraph (5). 

Article 51 
Technical Assistance 
(1)  The Assembly shall establish a Committee for Technical Assistance 
(referred to in this Article as “the Committee”). 
(2)(a)  The members of the Committee shall be elected among the 
Contracting States, with due regard to the representation of developing 
countries. 
(b)  The Director General shall, on his own initiative or at the request of 
the Committee, invite representatives of intergovernmental organizations 
concerned with technical assistance to developing countries to participate in the 
work of the Committee. 
(3)(a)  The task of the Committee shall be to organize and supervise 
technical assistance for Contracting States which are developing countries in 
developing their patent systems individually or on a regional basis. 
(b)  The technical assistance shall comprise, among other things, the 
training of specialists, the loaning of experts, and the supply of equipment both 
for demonstration and for operational purposes. 
(4)  The International Bureau shall seek to enter into agreements, on the one 
hand, with international financing organizations and intergovernmental 
organizations, particularly the United Nations, the agencies of the United 
Nations, and the Specialized Agencies connected with the United Nations 
concerned with technical assistance, and, on the other hand, with the 
Governments of the States receiving the technical assistance, for the financing 
of projects pursuant to this Article. 
(5)  The details concerning the implementation of the provisions of this 
Article shall be governed by decisions of the Assembly and, within the limits to 
be fixed by the Assembly, such working groups as the Assembly may set up for 
that purpose. 

Article 52 
Relations with Other Provisions of the Treaty 
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the financial provisions contained in any 
other Chapter of this Treaty.  Such provisions are not applicable to the present 
Chapter or to its implementation. 

Article 53 
Assembly 
(1)(a)  The Assembly shall, subject to Article 57(8), consist of the 
Contracting States. 
(b)  The Government of each Contracting State shall be represented by 
one delegate, who may be assisted by alternate delegates, advisors, and experts. 
(2)(a)  The Assembly shall: 
(i) deal with all matters concerning the maintenance and 
development of the Union and the implementation of this Treaty; 
(ii) perform such tasks as are specifically assigned to it under other 
provisions of this Treaty; 
(iii) give directions to the International Bureau concerning the 
preparation for revision conferences; 
(iv) review and approve the reports and activities of the Director 
General concerning the Union, and give him all necessary instructions 
concerning matters within the competence of the Union; 
(v) review and approve the reports and activities of the Executive 
Committee established under paragraph (9), and give instructions to such 
Committee; 
(vi) determine the program and adopt the triennial2 budget of the 
Union, and approve its final accounts; 
(vii) adopt the financial regulations of the Union; 
(viii) establish such committees and working groups as it deems 
appropriate to achieve the objectives of the Union; 
(ix) determine which States other than Contracting States and, subject 
to the provisions of paragraph (8), which intergovernmental and international 
non-governmental organizations shall be admitted to its meetings as observers; 
(x) take any other appropriate action designed to further the 
objectives of the Union and perform such other functions as are appropriate 
under this Treaty. 
(b)  With respect to matters which are of interest also to other Unions 
administered by the Organization, the Assembly shall make its decisions after 
having heard the advice of the Coordination Committee of the Organization. 
(3)  A delegate may represent, and vote in the name of, one State only. 
(4)  Each Contracting State shall have one vote. 
(5)(a)  One-half of the Contracting States shall constitute a quorum. 
(b)  In the absence of the quorum, the Assembly may make decisions but, 
with the exception of decisions concerning its own procedure, all such decisions 
shall take effect only if the quorum and the required majority are attained 
through voting by correspondence as provided in the Regulations. 
(6)(a)  Subject to the provisions of Articles 47(2)(b), 58(2)(b), 58(3) 
and 61(2)(b), the decisions of the Assembly shall require two-thirds of the votes 
cast. 
(b)  Abstentions shall not be considered as votes. 
(7)  In connection with matters of exclusive interest to States bound by 
Chapter II, any reference to Contracting States in paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), 
shall be considered as applying only to States bound by Chapter II. 
(8)  Any intergovernmental organization appointed as International 
Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority shall be admitted as observer to 
the Assembly. 
(9)  When the number of Contracting States exceeds forty, the Assembly 
shall establish an Executive Committee.  Any reference to the Executive 
Editor’s Note:  Since 1980, the program and budget of the Union have been biennial. 
Committee in this Treaty and the Regulations shall be construed as references to 
such Committee once it has been established. 
(10)  Until the Executive Committee has been established, the Assembly 
shall approve, within the limits of the program and triennial3 budget, the annual 
programs and budgets prepared by the Director General. 
(11)(a)  The Assembly shall meet in every second calendar year in ordinary 
session upon convocation by the Director General and, in the absence of 
exceptional circumstances, during the same period and at the same place as the 
General Assembly of the Organization. 
(b)  The Assembly shall meet in extraordinary session upon convocation 
by the Director General, at the request of the Executive Committee, or at the 
request of one-fourth of the Contracting States. 
(12)  The Assembly shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 

Article 54 
Executive Committee 
(1)  When the Assembly has established an Executive Committee, that 
Committee shall be subject to the provisions set forth hereinafter. 
(2)(a)  The Executive Committee shall, subject to Article 57(8), consist of 
States elected by the Assembly from among States members of the Assembly. 
(b)  The Government of each State member of the Executive Committee 
shall be represented by one delegate, who may be assisted by alternate 
delegates, advisors, and experts. 
(3)  The number of States members of the Executive Committee shall 
correspond to one-fourth of the number of States members of the Assembly.  In 
establishing the number of seats to be filled, remainders after division by four 
shall be disregarded. 
(4)  In electing the members of the Executive Committee, the Assembly 
shall have due regard to an equitable geographical distribution. 
(5)(a)  Each member of the Executive Committee shall serve from the close 
of the session of the Assembly which elected it to the close of the next ordinary 
session of the Assembly. 
(b)  Members of the Executive Committee may be re-elected but only up 
to a maximum of two-thirds of such members. 
Editor’s Note:  Since 1980, the program and budget of the Union have been biennial. 
(c)  The Assembly shall establish the details of the rules governing the 
election and possible re-election of the members of the Executive Committee. 
(6)(a)  The Executive Committee shall: 
(i) prepare the draft agenda of the Assembly; 
(ii) submit proposals to the Assembly in respect of the draft program 
and biennial budget of the Union prepared by the Director General; 
(iii) [deleted] 
(iv) submit, with appropriate comments, to the Assembly the 
periodical reports of the Director General and the yearly audit reports on the 
accounts; 
(v) take all necessary measures to ensure the execution of the 
program of the Union by the Director General, in accordance with the decisions 
of the Assembly and having regard to circumstances arising between two 
ordinary sessions of the Assembly; 
(vi) perform such other functions as are allocated to it under this 
Treaty. 
(b)  With respect to matters which are of interest also to other Unions 
administered by the Organization, the Executive Committee shall make its 
decisions after having heard the advice of the Coordination Committee of the 
Organization. 
(7)(a)  The Executive Committee shall meet once a year in ordinary session 
upon convocation by the Director General, preferably during the same period 
and at the same place as the Coordination Committee of the Organization. 
(b)  The Executive Committee shall meet in extraordinary session upon 
convocation by the Director General, either on his own initiative or at the 
request of its Chairman or one-fourth of its members. 
(8)(a)  Each State member of the Executive Committee shall have one vote. 
(b)  One-half of the members of the Executive Committee shall constitute 
a quorum. 
(c)  Decisions shall be made by a simple majority of the votes cast. 
(d)  Abstentions shall not be considered as votes. 
(e)  A delegate may represent, and vote in the name of, one State only. 
(9)  Contracting States not members of the Executive Committee shall be 
admitted to its meetings as observers, as well as any intergovernmental 
organization appointed as International Searching or Preliminary Examining 
Authority. 
(10)  The Executive Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 

Article 55 
International Bureau 
(1)  Administrative tasks concerning the Union shall be performed by the 
International Bureau. 
(2)  The International Bureau shall provide the secretariat of the various 
organs of the Union. 
(3)  The Director General shall be the chief executive of the Union and shall 
represent the Union. 
(4)  The International Bureau shall publish a Gazette and other publications 
provided for by the Regulations or required by the Assembly. 
(5)  The Regulations shall specify the services that national Offices shall 
perform in order to assist the International Bureau and the International 
Searching and Preliminary Examining Authorities in carrying out their tasks 
under this Treaty. 
(6)  The Director General and any staff member designated by him shall 
participate, without the right to vote, in all meetings of the Assembly, the 
Executive Committee and any other committee or working group established 
under this Treaty or the Regulations.  The Director General, or a staff member 
designated by him, shall be ex officio secretary of these bodies. 
(7)(a)  The International Bureau shall, in accordance with the directions of 
the Assembly and in cooperation with the Executive Committee, make the 
preparations for the revision conferences. 
(b)  The International Bureau may consult with intergovernmental and 
international non-governmental organizations concerning preparations for 
revision conferences. 
(c)  The Director General and persons designated by him shall take part, 
without the right to vote, in the discussions at revision conferences. 
(8)  The International Bureau shall carry out any other tasks assigned to it. 

Article 56 
Committee for Technical Cooperation 
(1)  The Assembly shall establish a Committee for Technical Cooperation 
(referred to in this Article as “the Committee”). 
(2)(a)  The Assembly shall determine the composition of the Committee and 
appoint its members, with due regard to an equitable representation of 
developing countries. 
(b)  The International Searching and Preliminary Examining Authorities 
shall be ex officio members of the Committee.  In the case where such an 
Authority is the national Office of a Contracting State, that State shall not be 
additionally represented on the Committee. 
(c)  If the number of Contracting States so allows, the total number of 
members of the Committee shall be more than double the number of ex officio 
members. 
(d)  The Director General shall, on his own initiative or at the request of 
the Committee, invite representatives of interested organizations to participate 
in discussions of interest to them. 
(3)  The aim of the Committee shall be to contribute, by advice and 
recommendations: 
(i) to the constant improvement of the services provided for under this 
Treaty, 
(ii) to the securing, so long as there are several International Searching 
Authorities and several International Preliminary Examining Authorities, of the 
maximum degree of uniformity in their documentation and working methods 
and the maximum degree of uniformly high quality in their reports, and 
(iii) on the initiative of the Assembly or the Executive Committee, to the 
solution of the technical problems specifically involved in the establishment of 
a single International Searching Authority. 
(4)  Any Contracting State and any interested international organization may 
approach the Committee in writing on questions which fall within the 
competence of the Committee. 
(5)  The Committee may address its advice and recommendations to the 
Director General or, through him, to the Assembly, the Executive Committee, 
all or some of the International Searching and Preliminary Examining 
Authorities, and all or some of the receiving Offices. 
(6)(a)  In any case, the Director General shall transmit to the Executive 
Committee the texts of all the advice and recommendations of the Committee.  
He may comment on such texts. 
(b)  The Executive Committee may express its views on any advice, 
recommendation, or other activity of the Committee, and may invite the 
Committee to study and report on questions falling within its competence.  The 
Executive Committee may submit to the Assembly, with appropriate comments, 
the advice, recommendations and report of the Committee. 
(7)  Until the Executive Committee has been established, references in 
paragraph (6) to the Executive Committee shall be construed as references to 
the Assembly. 
(8)  The details of the procedure of the Committee shall be governed by the 
decisions of the Assembly. 

Article 57 
Finances 
(1)(a)  The Union shall have a budget. 
(b)  The budget of the Union shall include the income and expenses 
proper to the Union and its contribution to the budget of expenses common to 
the Unions administered by the Organization. 
(c)  Expenses not attributable exclusively to the Union but also to one or 
more other Unions administered by the Organization shall be considered as 
expenses common to the Unions.  The share of the Union in such common 
expenses shall be in proportion to the interest the Union has in them. 
(2)  The budget of the Union shall be established with due regard to the 
requirements of coordination with the budgets of the other Unions administered 
by the Organization. 
(3)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (5), the budget of the Union shall 
be financed from the following sources: 
(i) fees and charges due for services rendered by the International 
Bureau in relation to the Union; 
(ii) sale of, or royalties on, the publications of the International Bureau 
concerning the Union; 
(iii) gifts, bequests, and subventions; 
(iv) rents, interests, and other miscellaneous income. 
(4)  The amounts of fees and charges due to the International Bureau and the 
prices of its publications shall be so fixed that they should, under normal 
circumstances, be sufficient to cover all the expenses of the International 
Bureau connected with the administration of this Treaty. 
(5)(a)  Should any financial year close with a deficit, the Contracting States 
shall, subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (b) and (c), pay contributions 
to cover such deficit. 
(b)  The amount of the contribution of each Contracting State shall be 
decided by the Assembly with due regard to the number of international 
applications which has emanated from each of them in the relevant year. 
(c)  If other means of provisionally covering any deficit or any part 
thereof are secured, the Assembly may decide that such deficit be carried 
forward and that the Contracting States should not be asked to pay 
contributions. 
(d)  If the financial situation of the Union so permits, the Assembly may 
decide that any contributions paid under subparagraph (a) be reimbursed to the 
Contracting States which have paid them. 
(e)  A Contracting State which has not paid, within two years of the due 
date as established by the Assembly, its contribution under subparagraph (b) 
may not exercise its right to vote in any of the organs of the Union.  However, 
any organ of the Union may allow such a State to continue to exercise its right 
to vote in that organ so long as it is satisfied that the delay in payment is due to 
exceptional and unavoidable circumstances. 
(6)  If the budget is not adopted before the beginning of a new financial 
period, it shall be at the same level as the budget of the previous year, as 
provided in the financial regulations. 
(7)(a)  The Union shall have a working capital fund which shall be 
constituted by a single payment made by each Contracting State.  If the fund 
becomes insufficient, the Assembly shall arrange to increase it.  If part of the 
fund is no longer needed, it shall be reimbursed. 
(b)  The amount of the initial payment of each Contracting State to the 
said fund or of its participation in the increase thereof shall be decided by the 
Assembly on the basis of principles similar to those provided for under 
paragraph (5)(b). 
(c)  The terms of payment shall be fixed by the Assembly on the proposal 
of the Director General and after it has heard the advice of the Coordination 
Committee of the Organization. 
(d)  Any reimbursement shall be proportionate to the amounts paid by 
each Contracting State, taking into account the dates at which they were paid. 
(8)(a)  In the headquarters agreement concluded with the State on the 
territory of which the Organization has its headquarters, it shall be provided 
that, whenever the working capital fund is insufficient, such State shall grant 
advances.  The amount of these advances and the conditions on which they are 
granted shall be the subject of separate agreements, in each case, between such 
State and the Organization.  As long as it remains under the obligation to grant 
advances, such State shall have an ex officio seat in the Assembly and on the 
Executive Committee. 
(b)  The State referred to in subparagraph (a) and the Organization shall 
each have the right to denounce the obligation to grant advances, by written 
notification.  Denunciation shall take effect three years after the end of the year 
in which it has been notified. 
(9)  The auditing of the accounts shall be effected by one or more of the 
Contracting States or by external auditors, as provided in the financial 
regulations.  They shall be designated, with their agreement, by the Assembly. 

Article 58 
Regulations 
(1)  The Regulations annexed to this Treaty provide Rules: 
(i) concerning matters in respect of which this Treaty expressly refers to 
the Regulations or expressly provides that they are or shall be prescribed, 
(ii) concerning any administrative requirements, matters, or procedures, 
(iii) concerning any details useful in the implementation of the 
provisions of this Treaty. 
(2)(a)  The Assembly may amend the Regulations. 
(b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), amendments shall require 
three-fourths of the votes cast. 
(3)(a)  The Regulations specify the Rules which may be amended 
(i) only by unanimous consent, or 
(ii) only if none of the Contracting States whose national Office acts 
as an International Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority dissents, and, 
where such Authority is an intergovernmental organization, if the Contracting 
State member of that organization authorized for that purpose by the other 
member States within the competent body of such organization does not dissent. 
(b)  Exclusion, for the future, of any such Rules from the applicable 
requirement shall require the fulfillment of the conditions referred to in 
subparagraph (a)(i) or (a)(ii), respectively. 
(c)  Inclusion, for the future, of any Rule in one or the other of the 
requirements referred to in subparagraph (a) shall require unanimous consent. 
(4)  The Regulations provide for the establishment, under the control of the 
Assembly, of Administrative Instructions by the Director General. 
(5)  In the case of conflict between the provisions of the Treaty and those of 
the Regulations, the provisions of the Treaty shall prevail. 

Article 59 
Disputes 
Subject to Article 64(5), any dispute between two or more Contracting 
States concerning the interpretation or application of this Treaty or the 
Regulations, not settled by negotiation, may, by any one of the States 
concerned, be brought before the International Court of Justice by application in 
conformity with the Statute of the Court, unless the States concerned agree on 
some other method of settlement.  The Contracting State bringing the dispute 
before the Court shall inform the International Bureau;  the International Bureau 
shall bring the matter to the attention of the other Contracting States. 

Article 60 
Revision of the Treaty 
(1)  This Treaty may be revised from time to time by a special conference of 
the Contracting States. 
(2)  The convocation of any revision conference shall be decided by the 
Assembly. 
(3)  Any intergovernmental organization appointed as International 
Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority shall be admitted as observer to 
any revision conference. 
(4)  Articles 53(5), (9) and (11), 54, 55(4) to (8), 56, and 57, may be 
amended either by a revision conference or according to the provisions of 
Article 61. 

Article 61 
Amendment of Certain Provisions of the Treaty 
(1)(a)  Proposals for the amendment of Articles 53(5), (9) and (11), 54, 55(4) 
to (8), 56, and 57, may be initiated by any State member of the Assembly, by the 
Executive Committee, or by the Director General. 
(b)  Such proposals shall be communicated by the Director General to the 
Contracting States at least six months in advance of their consideration by the 
Assembly. 
(2)(a)  Amendments to the Articles referred to in paragraph (1) shall be 
adopted by the Assembly. 
(b)  Adoption shall require three-fourths of the votes cast. 
(3)(a)  Any amendment to the Articles referred to in paragraph (1) shall 
enter into force one month after written notifications of acceptance, effected in 
accordance with their respective constitutional processes, have been received by 
the Director General from three-fourths of the States members of the Assembly 
at the time it adopted the amendment. 
(b)  Any amendment to the said Articles thus accepted shall bind all the 
States which are members of the Assembly at the time the amendment enters 
into force, provided that any amendment increasing the financial obligations of 
the Contracting States shall bind only those States which have notified their 
acceptance of such amendment. 
(c)  Any amendment accepted in accordance with the provisions of 
subparagraph (a) shall bind all States which become members of the Assembly 
after the date on which the amendment entered into force in accordance with the 
provisions of subparagraph (a). 

Article 62 
Becoming Party to the Treaty 
(1)  Any State member of the International Union for the Protection of 
Industrial Property may become party to this Treaty by: 
(i) signature followed by the deposit of an instrument of ratification, or 
(ii) deposit of an instrument of accession. 
(2)  Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the 
Director General. 
(3)  The provisions of Article 24 of the Stockholm Act of the Paris 
Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property shall apply to this Treaty. 
(4)  Paragraph (3) shall in no way be understood as implying the recognition 
or tacit acceptance by a Contracting State of the factual situation concerning a 
territory to which this Treaty is made applicable by another Contracting State by 
virtue of the said paragraph. 

Article 63 
Entry into Force of the Treaty 
(1)(a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), this Treaty shall enter into 
force three months after eight States have deposited their instruments of 
ratification or accession, provided that at least four of those States each fulfill 
any of the following conditions: 
(i) the number of applications filed in the State has exceeded 40,000 
according to the most recent annual statistics published by the International 
Bureau, 
(ii) the nationals or residents of the State have filed at least 1,000 
applications in one foreign country according to the most recent annual 
statistics published by the International Bureau, 
(iii) the national Office of the State has received at least 10,000 
applications from nationals or residents of foreign countries according to the 
most recent annual statistics published by the International Bureau. 
(b)  For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “applications” does not 
include applications for utility models. 
(2)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), any State which does not 
become party to this Treaty upon entry into force under paragraph (1) shall 
become bound by this Treaty three months after the date on which such State 
has deposited its instrument of ratification or accession. 
(3)  The provisions of Chapter II and the corresponding provisions of the 
Regulations annexed to this Treaty shall become applicable, however, only on 
the date on which three States each of which fulfill at least one of the three 
requirements specified in paragraph (1) have become party to this Treaty 
without declaring, as provided in Article 64(1), that they do not intend to be 
bound by the provisions of Chapter II.  That date shall not, however, be prior to 
that of the initial entry into force under paragraph (1). 

Article 64 
Reservations4 
(1)(a)  Any State may declare that it shall not be bound by the provisions of 
Chapter II. 
(b)  States making a declaration under subparagraph (a) shall not be 
bound by the provisions of Chapter II and the corresponding provisions of the 
Regulations. 
(2)(a)  Any State not having made a declaration under paragraph (1)(a) may 
declare that: 
(i) it shall not be bound by the provisions of Article 39(1) with 
respect to the furnishing of a copy of the international application and a 
translation thereof (as prescribed), 
(ii) the obligation to delay national processing, as provided for under 
Article 40, shall not prevent publication, by or through its national Office, of the 
international application or a translation thereof, it being understood, however, 
that it is not exempted from the limitations provided for in Articles 30 and 38. 
(b)  States making such a declaration shall be bound accordingly. 
(3)(a)  Any State may declare that, as far as it is concerned, international 
publication of international applications is not required. 
(b)  Where, at the expiration of 18 months from the priority date, the 
international application contains the designation only of such States as have 
made declarations under subparagraph (a), the international application shall 
not be published by virtue of Article 21(2). 
(c)  Where the provisions of subparagraph (b) apply, the international 
application shall nevertheless be published by the International Bureau: 
(i) at the request of the applicant, as provided in the Regulations, 
(ii) when a national application or a patent based on the international 
application is published by or on behalf of the national Office of any designated 
State having made a declaration under subparagraph (a), promptly after such 
publication but not before the expiration of 18 months from the priority date. 
(4)(a)  Any State whose national law provides for prior art effect of its 
patents as from a date before publication, but does not equate for prior art 
purposes the priority date claimed under the Paris Convention for the Protection 
Editor’s Note:  Information received by the International Bureau concerning 
reservations made under Article 64(1) to (5) is published in the Gazette and on the WIPO 
website at:  www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html. 
of Industrial Property to the actual filing date in that State, may declare that the 
filing outside that State of an international application designating that State is 
not equated to an actual filing in that State for prior art purposes. 
(b)  Any State making a declaration under subparagraph (a) shall to that 
extent not be bound by the provisions of Article 11(3). 
(c)  Any State making a declaration under subparagraph (a) shall, at the 
same time, state in writing the date from which, and the conditions under which, 
the prior art effect of any international application designating that State 
becomes effective in that State.  This statement may be modified at any time by 
notification addressed to the Director General. 
(5)  Each State may declare that it does not consider itself bound by 
Article 59.  With regard to any dispute between any Contracting State having 
made such a declaration and any other Contracting State, the provisions of 
Article 59 shall not apply. 
(6)(a)  Any declaration made under this Article shall be made in writing.  It 
may be made at the time of signing this Treaty, at the time of depositing the 
instrument of ratification or accession, or, except in the case referred to in 
paragraph (5), at any later time by notification addressed to the Director 
General.  In the case of the said notification, the declaration shall take effect six 
months after the day on which the Director General has received the 
notification, and shall not affect international applications filed prior to the 
expiration of the said six-month period. 
(b)  Any declaration made under this Article may be withdrawn at any 
time by notification addressed to the Director General.  Such withdrawal shall 
take effect three months after the day on which the Director General has 
received the notification and, in the case of the withdrawal of a declaration 
made under paragraph (3), shall not affect international applications filed prior 
to the expiration of the said three-month period. 
(7)  No reservations to this Treaty other than the reservations under 
paragraphs (1) to (5) are permitted. 

Article 65 
Gradual Application 
(1)  If the agreement with any International Searching or Preliminary 
Examining Authority provides, transitionally, for limits on the number or kind 
of international applications that such Authority undertakes to process, the 
Assembly shall adopt the measures necessary for the gradual application of this 
Treaty and the Regulations in respect of given categories of international 
applications.  This provision shall also apply to requests for an international-
type search under Article 15(5). 
(2)  The Assembly shall fix the dates from which, subject to the provision of 
paragraph (1), international applications may be filed and demands for 
international preliminary examination may be submitted.  Such dates shall not 
be later than six months after this Treaty has entered into force according to the 
provisions of Article 63(1), or after Chapter II has become applicable under 
Article 63(3), respectively. 

Article 66 
Denunciation 
(1)  Any Contracting State may denounce this Treaty by notification 
addressed to the Director General. 
(2)  Denunciation shall take effect six months after receipt of the said 
notification by the Director General.  It shall not affect the effects of the 
international application in the denouncing State if the international application 
was filed, and, where the denouncing State has been elected, the election was 
made, prior to the expiration of the said six-month period. 

Article 67 
Signature and Languages 
(1)(a)  This Treaty shall be signed in a single original in the English and 
French languages, both texts being equally authentic. 
(b)  Official texts shall be established by the Director General, after 
consultation with the interested Governments, in the German, Japanese, 
Portuguese, Russian and Spanish languages, and such other languages as the 
Assembly may designate. 
(2)  This Treaty shall remain open for signature at Washington until 
December 31, 1970. 

Article 68 
Depositary Functions 
(1)  The original of this Treaty, when no longer open for signature, shall be 
deposited with the Director General. 
(2)  The Director General shall transmit two copies, certified by him, of this 
Treaty and the Regulations annexed hereto to the Governments of all States 
party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and, on 
request, to the Government of any other State. 
(3)  The Director General shall register this Treaty with the Secretariat of the 
United Nations. 
(4)  The Director General shall transmit two copies, certified by him, of any 
amendment to this Treaty and the Regulations to the Governments of all 
Contracting States and, on request, to the Government of any other State. 

Article 69 
Notifications 
The Director General shall notify the Governments of all States party to the 
Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of: 
(i) signatures under Article 62, 
(ii) deposits of instruments of ratification or accession under Article 62, 
(iii) the date of entry into force of this Treaty and the date from which 
Chapter II is applicable in accordance with Article 63(3), 
(iv) any declarations made under Article 64(1) to (5), 
(v) withdrawals of any declarations made under Article 64(6)(b), 
(vi) denunciations received under Article 66, and 
(vii) any declarations made under Article 31(4). 
